THE STATES PARTIES to this Protocol,
CONSIDERING that international trade 1s an important factor in the promotion of
friendly relations amongst States,
BELIEVING that the adoption of uniform rules governing the limitation period in
the international sale of goods would facilitate the development of world trade,
CONSIDERING that amending the Convention on the Limitation Period in the
International Sale of Goods, concluded at New York on 14 June 197q (the 1974
Limitation Convention), to conform to the United Nations Convention on Contracts
for the International Sale of Goods, concluded at Vienna on 11 April 1980 (the
1980 Sales Convention}, would promote the adoption of the uniform rules governing
the limitation period contained in the 1974 Limitation Convention,

HAVE AGREED to amend the 1974 Limitation Convention as follows:
Article I
(1)

Paragraph 1 of article 3 is replaced by tne following provisions:
"1.

This Convention shall apply only
(a)

if, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, the places of
business of the parties to a contract of international sale of
goods are in Contracting states; or

(b)

if the rules of private international law make the law of a
Contracting State applicable to the contract of sale. n

(2)

Paragraph 2 of article 3 is deleted.

(3)

Paragraph 3 of article 3 1s refiumbered as paragraph 2.

Article II
(1) Subparagraph (a) of article 4 1s deleted and replaced by the following
provision:
"(a) of goods bought for personal, family or household use, unless the
seller, at any time before or at the conclusion of the contract,
neither knew nor ought to have known that the goods were bought for
any such use;
(2)

Subparagraph (e) of article 4 1s deleted and is replaced by the following

provlsiOl. :

"(e) of ships, vessels, hovercraft or aircrafti"
Article III
A new paragraph 4 1s added to article 31 reading as follows:

11(4) If, by virtue of a declaration under this article, this Convention
extends to one or more but not all of the territorial units of a
Contracting State, and if the place of business of a party to a
contract Is located In that State, this place of business shall,
for the purposes of this Convention, be considered not to be in a
Contracting State, unless it is in a territorial unit to which the
Convention extends."
Article IV
The
provisions
of article 34 are deleted and are replaced by the following provisions:

"1.

Two or more Contracting States which have the same or closely related
legal rules on matters governed by this Convention may at any time
declare that the Convention shall not apply to contracts of international
sale of goods where the parties have their places of business in those
StatesStates. Such declarations may be made jointly or by reciprocal unilateral
declarations.

2.

A Contracting State which has the same or closely relRted legal rules on
matters governed by this Convention as one or more non-Contracting
States may at any time declare that the Convention shall not apply to
contracts of international sale of goods where the parties have their
places of business in those states.

2

3.

If a State which is the object of a declaration under paragraph (2) of
this article subsequently becomes a Contracting State, the declaration
made shall, as from the date on which this Convention enters into force
in respect of the new Contracting State, have the effect of a declaration
made under paragraph (1), provided that the new Contracting State joins
in such declaration or makes a reciprocal unilateral declaration."
Article V

The provisions of article 31 are deleted and are replaced by the following
provisions:
"This Convention shall not prevail over any international agreement which haa
already been or may be entered into and which contains provisions concerning
the matters governed by this Convention, provided that the seller and buyer
have their places of business in States parties to such agreement."

Article VI
At the end of paragraph 1 of article 40, the following provision is added:
"Reciprocal unilateral declarations under article 34 shall take effect on the
first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the
receipt of the latest declaration by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations,"
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article VII
The Secretary-General of the United Nations is hereby designated as the depositary
for this Protocol.
Article VIII
(1)

This Protocol shall be open for accession by all states.

(2) Accession to this Protocol by any State which is not a Contracting Party
to the 1974 Limitation Convention shall have the effect of accession to that Convention
as amended by this Protocol, subject to the prOVisions of article XI.
(3) Instruments of accession shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the
United Nations.

3

Article IX
(1) Th1S Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the sixth month
following the deposit of the second instrument of accession, provided that on that
date:

(a)

the 1974 Limitation Convention is itself in force;

(b)

the 1980 Sales Convention is also in force.

and

If these Conventions are not both in force on that date, this Protocol shall enter into
force on the first day on which both Conventions are in force.
(2) For each State acceding to this Protocol after the second instrument of
accession has been deposited, this Protocol shall enter into force on the first
day of the sixth month following the deposit of its instrument of accession, if by that
date the Protocol 1s itself in force. If by that date the Protocol itself is not yet
in force, the Protocol shall enter into force for that State on the date the Protocol
itself enters into force.
Article X
If a State ratifies or accedes to the 197~ Limitation Convention after the
entry into force of this Protocol, the ratification or accession shall also constitute
an accession to this Protocol if the State notifies the depositary accordingly.
Article XI
Any State which becomes a Contracting Party to the 1974 Limitation Convention,
as amended by this Protocol, by virtue of articles VIII, IX or X of this Protocol
shall. unless it notifies the depositary to the contrary, be considered to be also
a Contracting Party to the Convention, unamended, in relation to any Contracting
Party to the Convention not yet a Contracting Party to this Protocol.
Article XII
Any State may declare at the time of the deposit of its instrument of accession or
its notification under article X that it will not be bound by article I of the Protocol.
A declaration made under this article shall be in writing and be formally notified to
the depositary.

Article XIII
(1) A Contracting State may denounce this Protocol by notifying the depositary
to that effect.
(2) The denunciation shall take effect on the first day of the month following
the expiration of twelve months after receipt of the notification by the depositary.
(3) Any Contracting State in respect of which this Protocol ceases to have
effect by the application of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this article shall remain a
Contracting Party to the 1974 Limitation Convention, unamended, unless it denounces the
unamended Convention in accordance with article 45 of that Convention.
Article XIV
(1)
States.

The depositary shall transmit certified true copies of this Protocol to all

(2) When this Protocol enters into force in accordance with article IX, the
depositary shall prepare a text of the 191~ Limitation Convention, as amended by
this Protocol, and shall transmit certified true copies to all States Parties to
that Convention, as amended by this Protocol.

DONE at Vienna, this day of 11 April 1980, in a single original, of which the Arabic,
Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic.
