EUROPEAN CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL COMMERCIAL ARBITRATION OF 1961 DONE AT



[PRE]
-

THE UNDERSIGNED, DULY AUTHORIZED,

Convened under the auspices of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United
Nations.

Having noted that on 10th June 1958 at the United Nations Conference on
International Commercial Arbitration has been signed in New York a Convention
on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards,

Desirous of promoting the development of European trade by, as far as possible,
removing certain difficulties that may impede the organization and operation of
international commercial arbitration in relations between physical or legal
persons of different European countries,

Have agreed on the following provisions:

ARTICLE I - SCOPE OF THE CONVENTION
-

1. This Convention shall apply:

(a) to arbitration agreements concluded for the purpose of settling disputes
arising from international trade between physical or legal persons having, when
concluding the agreement, their habitual place of residence or their seat in
different Contracting States;

(b) to arbitral procedures and awards based on agreements referred to in
paragraph 1(a) above.

2. For the purpose of this Convention,

(a) the term: "arbitration agreement" shall mean either an arbitral clause in a
contract or an arbitration agreement, the contract or arbitration agreement
being signed by the parties, or contained in an exchange of letters, telegrams,
or in a communication by teleprinter and, in relations between States whose
laws do not require that an arbitration agreement be made in writing, any
arbitration agreement concluded in the form authorized by these laws;

(b) the term "arbitration" shall mean not only settlement by arbitrators
appointed for each case ( ad hoc arbitration) but also by permanent arbitral
institutions;

(c) the term "seat" shall mean the place of the situation of the establishment
that has made the arbitration agreement.

ARTICLE II - RIGHT OF LEGAL PERSONS OF PUBLIC LAW TO RESORT TO ARBITRATION


1. In cases referred to in Article I, paragraph 1, of this Convention, legal
persons considered by the law which is applicable to them as "legal persons of
public law" have the right to conclude valid arbitration agreements.

2. On signing, ratifying or acceding to this Convention any State shall be
entitled to declare that it limits the above faculty to such conditions as may
be stated in its declaration.

ARTICLE III - RIGHT OF FOREIGN NATIONALS TO BE DESIGNATED AS ARBITRATORS


In arbitration covered by this Convention, foreign nationals may be designated
as arbitrators.

ARTICLE IV - ORGANIZATION OF THE ARBITRATION


1. The parties to an arbitration agreement shall be free to submit their
disputes:

(a) to a permanent arbitral institution; in this case, the arbitration
proceedings shall be held in conformity with the rules of the said institution;

(b) to an ad hoc arbitral procedure; in this case, they shall be free inter
alia

(i) to appoint arbitrators or to establish means for their appointment in the
event of an actual dispute;

(ii) to determine the place of arbitration; and

(iii) to lay down the procedure to be followed by the arbitrators.

2. Where the parties have agreed to submit any disputes to an ad hoc
arbitration, and where within thirty days of the notification of the request
for arbitration to the respondent one of the parties fails to appoint his
arbitrator, the latter shall, unless otherwise provided, be appointed at the
request of the other party by the President of the competent Chamber of
Commerce of the country of the defaulting party's habitual place of residence
or seat at the time of the introduction of the request for arbitration. This
paragraph shall also apply to the replacement of the arbitrator(s) appointed by
one of the parties or by the President of the Chamber of Commerce above
referred to.

3. Where the parties have agreed to submit any disputes to an ad hoc
arbitration by one or more arbitrators and the arbitration agreement contains
no indication regarding the organization of the arbitration, as mentioned in
paragraph 1 of this Article, the necessary steps shall be taken by the
arbitrator(s) already appointed, unless the parties are able to agree thereon
and without prejudice to the case referred to in paragraph 2 above. Where the
parties cannot agree on the appointment of the sole arbitrator or where the
arbitrators appointed cannot agree on the measures to be taken, the claimant
shall apply for the necessary action, where the place of arbitration has been
agreed upon by the parties, at his option to the President of the Chamber of
Commerce of the place of arbitration agreed upon or to the President of the
competent Chamber of Commerce of the respondent's habitual place of residence
or seat at the time of the introduction of the request for arbitration. Where
such a place has not been agreed upon, the claimant shall be entitled at his
option to apply for the necessary action either to the President of the
competent Chamber of Commerce of the country of the respondent's habitual place
of residence or seat at the time of the introduction of the request for
arbitration, or to the Special Committee whose composition and procedure are
specified in the Annex to this Convention. Where the claimant fails to exercise
the rights given to him under this paragraph the respondent or the
arbitrator(s) shall be entitled to do so.

4. When seized of a request the President or the Special Committee shall be
entitled as need be:

(a) to appoint the sole arbitrator, presiding arbitrator, umpire, or referee;

(b) to replace the arbitrator(s) appointed under any procedure other than that
referred to in paragraph 2 above;

(c) to determine the place of arbitration, provided that the arbitrator(s) may
fix another place of arbitration;

(d) to establish directly or by reference to the rules and statutes of a
permanent arbitral institution the rules of procedure to be followed by the
arbitrator(s), provided that the arbitrators have not established these rules
themselves in the absence of any agreement thereon between the parties.

5. Where the parties have agreed to submit their disputes to a permanent
arbitral institution without determining the institution in question and cannot
agree thereon, the claimant may request the determination of such institution
in conformity with the procedure referred to in paragraph 3 above.

6. Where the arbitration agreement does not specify the mode of arbitration
(arbitration by a permanent arbitral institution or an ad hoc arbitration) to
which the parties have agreed to submit their dispute, and where the parties
cannot agree thereon, the claimant shall be entitled to have recourse in this
case to the procedure referred to in paragraph 3 to determine the question. The
President of the competent Chamber of Commerce or the Special Committee, shall
be entitled either to refer the parties to a permanent arbitral institution or
to request the parties to appoint their arbitrator within such time-limits as
the President of the competent Chamber of Commerce or the Special Committee may
have fixed and to agree within such time-limits on the necessary measures for
the functioning of the arbitration. In the latter case, the provisions of
paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article shall apply.

7. Where within a period of sixty days from the moment when he was requested to
fulfil one of the functions set out in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this
Article, the President of the Chamber of Commerce designated by virtue of these
paragraphs has not fulfilled one of these functions, the party requesting shall
be entitled to ask the Special Committee to do so.

ARTICLE V - PLEA AS TO ARBITRAL JURISDICTION


1. The party which intends to raise a plea as to the arbitrator's jurisdiction
based on the fact that the arbitration agreement was either non-existent or
null and void or had lapsed shall do so during the arbitration proceedings, not
later than the delivery of its statement of claim or defence relating to the
substance of the dispute; those based on the fact that an arbitrator has
exceeded his terms of reference shall be raised during the arbitration
proceedings as soon as the question on which the arbitrator is alleged to have
no jurisdiction is raised during the arbitral procedure. Where the delay in
raising the plea is due to a cause which the arbitrator deems justified, the
arbitrator shall declare the plea admissible.

2. Pleas to the jurisdiction referred to in paragraph 1 above that have not
been raised during the time-limits there referred to, may not be entered either
during a subsequent stage of the arbitral proceedings where they are pleas left
to the sole discretion of the parties under the law applicable by the
arbitrator, or during subsequent court proceedings concerning the substance or
the enforcement of the award where such pleas are left to the discretion of the
parties under the rule of conflict of the court seized of the substance of the
dispute or the enforcement of the award. The arbitrator's decision on the delay
in raising the plea, will, however, be subject to judicial control.

3. Subject to any subsequent judicial control provided for under the lex fori ,
the arbitrator whose jurisdiction is called in question shall be entitled to
proceed with the arbitration, to rule on his own jurisdiction and to decide
upon the existence or the validity of the arbitration agreement or of the
contract of which the agreement forms part.

ARTICLE VI - JURISDICTION OF COURTS OF LAW


1. A plea as to the jurisdiction of the court made before the court seized by
either party to the arbitration agreement, on the basis of the fact that an
arbitration agreement exists shall, under penalty of estoppel, be presented by
the respondent before or at the same time as the presentation of his
substantial defence, depending upon whether the law of the court seized regards
this plea as one of procedure or of substance.

2. In taking a decision concerning the existence or the validity of an
arbitration agreement, courts of Contracting States shall examine the validity
of such agreement with reference to the capacity of the parties, under the law
applicable to them, and with reference to other questions.

(a) under the law to which the parties have subjected their arbitration
agreement;

(b) failing any indication thereon, under the law of the country in which the
award is to be made;

(c) failing any indication as to the law to which the parties have subjected
the agreement, and where at the time when the question is raised in court the
country in which the award is to be made cannot be determined, under the
competent law by virtue of the rules of conflict of the court seized of the
dispute.

The courts may also refuse recognition of the arbitration agreement if under
the law of their country the dispute is not capable of settlement by
arbitration.

3. Where either party to an arbitration agreement has initiated arbitration
proceedings before any resort is had to a court, courts of Contracting States
subsequently asked to deal with the same subject-matter between the same
parties or with the question whether the arbitration agreement was non-existent
or null and void or had lapsed, shall stay their ruling on the arbitrator's
jurisdiction until the arbitral award is made, unless they have good and
substantial reasons to the contrary.

4. A request for interim measures or measures of conservation addressed to a
judicial authority shall not be deemed incompatible with the arbitration
agreement, or regarded as a submission of the substance of the case to the
court.

ARTICLE VII - APPLICABLE LAW


1. The parties shall be free to determine, by agreement, the law to be applied
by the arbitrators to the substance of the dispute. Failing any indication by
the parties as to the applicable law, the arbitrators shall apply the proper
law under the rule of conflict that the arbitrators deem applicable. In both
cases the arbitrators shall take account of the terms of the contract and trade
usages.

2. The arbitrators shall act as amiables compositeurs if the parties so decide
and if they may do so under the law applicable to the arbitration.

ARTICLE VIII - REASONS FOR THE AWARD


The parties shall be presumed to have agreed that reasons shall be given for
the award unless they

(a) either expressly declare that reasons shall not be given; or

(b) have assented to an arbitral procedure under which it is not customary to
give reasons for awards, provided that in this case neither party requests
before the end of the hearing, or if there has not been a hearing then before
the making of the award, that reasons be given.

ARTICLE IX - SETTING ASIDE OF THE ARBITRAL AWARD


1. The setting aside in a Contracting State of an arbitral award covered by
this Convention shall only constitute a ground for the refusal of recognition
or enforcement in another Contracting State where such setting aside took place
in a State in which, or under the law of which, the award has been made and for
one of the following reasons:

(a) the parties to the arbitration agreement were under the law applicable to
them, under some incapacity or the said agreement is not valid under the law to
which the parties have subjected it or, failing any indication thereon, under
the law of the country where the award was made, or

(b) the party requesting the setting aside of the award was not given proper
notice of the appointment of the arbitrator or of the arbitration proceedings
or was otherwise unable to present his case; or

(c) the award deals with a difference not contemplated by or not falling within
the terms of the submission to arbitration, or it contains decisions on matters
beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration, provided that, if the
decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not
so submitted, that part of the award which contains decisions on matters
submitted to arbitration need not be set aside;

(d) the composition of the arbitral authority or the arbitral procedure was not
in accordance with the agreement of the parties, or failing such agreement,
with the provisions of Article IV of this Convention.

2. In relations between Contracting States that are also parties to the New
York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards
of 10th June 1958, paragraph 1 of this Article limits the application of
Article V (1) (e) of the New York Convention solely to the cases of setting
aside set out under paragraph 1 above.

ARTICLE X - FINAL CLAUSES
-

1. This Convention is open for signature or accession by countries members of
the Economic Commission for Europe and countries admitted to the Commission in
a consultative capacity under paragraph 8 of the Commission's terms of
reference.

2. Such countries as may participate in certain activities of the Economic
Commission for Europe in accordance with paragraph 11 of the Commission's terms
of reference may become Contracting Parties to this Convention by acceding
thereto after its entry into force.

3. The Convention shall be open for signature until 31 December 1961 inclusive.
Thereafter, it shall be open for accession.

4. This Convention shall be ratified.

5. Ratification or accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

6. When signing, ratifying or acceding to this Convention, the Contracting
Parties shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations a list
of the Chambers of Commerce or other institutions in their country who will
exercise the functions conferred by virtue of Article IV of this Convention on
Presidents of the competent Chambers of Commerce.

7. The provisions of the present Convention shall not affect the validity of
multi-lateral or bilateral agreements concerning arbitration entered into by
Contracting States.

8. This Convention shall come into force on the ninetieth day after five of the
countries referred to in paragraph 1 above have deposited their instruments of
ratification or accession. For any country ratifying or acceding to it later
this Convention shall enter into force on the ninetieth day after the said
country has deposited its instrument of ratification or accession.

9. Any Contracting Party may denounce this Convention by so notifying the
Secretary-General of the United Nations. Denunciation shall take effect twelve
months after the date of receipt by the Secretary-General of the notification
of denunciation.

10. If, after the entry into force of this Convention, the number of
Contracting Parties is reduced, as a result of denunciations, to less than
five, the Convention shall cease to be in force from the date on which the last
of such denunciations takes effect.

11. The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall notify the countries
referred to in paragraph 1, and the countries which have become Contracting
Parties under paragraph 2 above, of

(a) declarations made under Article II, paragraph 2;

(b) ratifications and accessions under paragraphs 1 and 2 above;

(c) communications received in pursuance of paragraph 6 above;

(d) the dates of entry into force of this Convention in accordance with
paragraph 8 above;

(e) denunciations under paragraph 9 above;

(f) the termination of this Convention in accordance with paragraph 10 above.

12. After 31 December 1961, the original of this Convention shall be deposited
with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall transmit certified
true copies to each of the countries mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 above.

IN WITNESS THEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed
this Convention.

DONE at Geneva, this twenty-first day of April, one thousand nine hundred and
sixty-one, in a single copy in the English, French and Russian languages, each
text being equally authentic.

ANNEX COMPOSITION AND PROCEDURE OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE
IV OF THE CONVENTION


1. The Special Committee referred to in Article IV of the Convention shall
consist of two regular members and a Chairman. One of the regular members shall
be elected by the Chambers of Commerce or other institutions designated, under
Article X, paragraph 6, of the Convention, by States in which at the time when
the Convention is open to signature national Committees of the International
Chamber of Commerce exist, and which at the time of the election are parties to
the Convention. The other member shall be elected by the Chambers of Commerce
or other institutions designated, under Article X, paragraph 6, of the
Convention, by States in which at the time when the Convention is open to
signature no National Committees of the International Chamber of Commerce exist
and which at the time of the election are parties to the Convention.

2. The persons who are to act as Chairman of the Special Committee pursuant to
paragraph 7 of this Annex shall also be elected in like manner by the Chambers
of Commerce or other institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Annex.

3. The Chambers of Commerce or other institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Annex shall elect alternates at the same time and in the same manner as
they elect the Chairman and other regular members, in case of the temporary
inability of the Chairman or regular members to act. In the event of the
permanent inability to act or of the resignation of a Chairman or of a regular
member, then the alternate elected to replace him shall become, as the case may
be, the Chairman or regular member, and the group of Chambers of Commerce or
other institutions which had elected the alternate who has become Chairman or
regular member shall elect another alternate.

4. The first elections to the Committee shall be held within ninety days from
the date of the deposit of the fifth instrument of ratification or accession.
Chambers of Commerce and other institutions designated by Signatory States who
are not yet parties to the Convention shall also be entitled to take part in
these elections. If however it should not be possible to hold elections within
the prescribed period, the entry into force of paragraphs 3 to 7 of Article IV
of the Convention shall be postponed until elections are held as provided for
above.

5. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 7 below, the members of the Special
Committee shall be elected for a term of four years. New elections shall be
held within the first six months of the fourth year following the previous
elections. Nevertheless, if a new procedure for the election of the members of
the Special Committee has not produced results, the members previously elected
shall continue to exercise their functions until the election of new members.

6. The results of the elections of the members of the Special Committee shall
be communicated to the Secretary-General of the United Nations who shall notify
the States referred to in Article X, paragraph 1, of the Convention and the
States which have become Contracting Parties under Article X, paragraph 2. The
Secretary-General shall likewise notify the said States of any postponement and
of the entry into force of paragraphs 3 and 7 of Article IV of the Convention
in pursuance of paragraph 4 of this Annex.

7. The persons elected to the office of Chairman shall exercise their functions
in rotation, each during a period of two years. The question which of these two
persons shall act as chairman during the first two-year period after entry into
force of the Convention shall be decided by the drawing of lots. The office of
Chairman shall thereafter be vested, for each successive two year period, in
the person elected Chairman by the group of countries other than that by which
the Chairman exercising his functions during the immediately preceding two-year
period was elected.

8. The reference to the Special Committee of one of the requests referred to in
paragraphs 3 to 7 of the aforesaid Article IV shall be addressed to the
Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe. The Executive
Secretary shall in the first instance lay the request before the member of the
Special Committee elected by the group of countries other than that by which
the Chairman holding office at the time of the introduction of the request was
elected. The proposal of the member applied to in the first instance shall be
communicated by the Executive Secretary to the other member of the Committee
and, if that other member agrees to this proposal, it shall be deemed to be the
Committee's ruling and shall be communicated as such by the Executive Secretary
to the person who made the request.

9. If the two members of the Special Committee applied to by the Executive
Secretary are unable to agree on a ruling by correspondence, the Executive
Secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe shall convene a meeting of the
said Committee at Geneva in an attempt to secure a unanimous decision of
unanimity, the Committee's decision shall be given by a majority vote and shall
be communicated by the Executive Secretary to the person who made the request.

10. The expenses connected with the Special Committee's action shall be
advanced by the person requesting such action but shall be considered as costs
in the cause.