Preamble
The Parties to this Convention,
Recognizing the value for international trade of mediation as a
method for settling commercial disputes in which the parties in dispute
request a third person or persons to assist them in their attempt to
settle the dispute amicably,
Noting that mediation is increasingly used in international and
domestic commercial practice as an alternative to litigation,
Considering that the use of mediation results in significant benefits, such as reducing the instances where a dispute leads to the
termination of a commercial relationship, facilitating the administration
of international transactions by commercial parties and producing
savings in the administration of justice by States,
Convinced that the establishment of a framework for international
settlement agreements resulting from mediation that is acceptable
to States with different legal, social and economic systems would
contribute to the development of harmonious international economic
relations,
Have agreed as follows:

Article 1. Scope of application
1. This Convention applies to an agreement resulting from
mediation and concluded in writing by parties to resolve a commercial
dispute (settlement agreement) which, at the time of its conclusion,
is international in that:
(a) At least two parties to the settlement agreement have their
places of business in different States; or
(b) The State in which the parties to the settlement agreement
have their places of business is different from either:


(i) The State in which a substantial part of the obligations
under the settlement agreement is performed; or
(ii) 
The State with which the subject matter of the
settlement agreement is most closely connected.
2.

This Convention does not apply to settlement agreements:

(a) Concluded to resolve a dispute arising from transactions
engaged in by one of the parties (a consumer) for personal, family
or household purposes;
(b) Relating to family, inheritance or employment law.
3.

This Convention does not apply to:
(a) Settlement agreements:

		(i)
That have been approved by a court or concluded in
the course of proceedings before a court; and
		(ii)  
That are enforceable as a judgment in the State of
that court;
(b) Settlement agreements that have been recorded and are
enforceable as an arbitral award.

Article 2. Definitions
1.

For the purposes of article 1, paragraph 1:

(a) If a party has more than one place of business, the relevant
place of business is that which has the closest relationship to the
dispute resolved by the settlement agreement, having regard to the
circumstances known to, or contemplated by, the parties at the time
of the conclusion of the settlement agreement;
(b) If a party does not have a place of business, reference is
to be made to the party's habitual residence.
2. A settlement agreement is 'in writing if its content is recorded
in any form. The requirement that a settlement agreement be in
writing is met by an electronic communication if the information
contained therein is accessible so as to be useable for subsequent
reference.
3. M“ediation means a process, irrespective of the expression
used or the basis upon which the process is carried out, whereby
parties attempt to reach an amicable settlement of their dispute
with the assistance of a third person or persons (“the mediator)
lacking the authority to impose a solution upon the parties to the
dispute.


Article 3. General principles
1. Each Party to the Convention shall enforce a settlement
agreement in accordance with its rules of procedure and under the
conditions laid down in this Convention.
2. If a dispute arises concerning a matter that a party claims was
already resolved by a settlement agreement, a Party to the Convention
shall allow the party to invoke the settlement agreement in accordance
with its rules of procedure and under the conditions laid down in
this Convention, in order to prove that the matter has already been
resolved.

Article 4. Requirements for reliance on settlement agreements
1. A party relying on a settlement agreement under this Convention
shall supply to the competent authority of the Party to the Convention
where relief is sought:
(a) The settlement agreement signed by the parties;
(b) Evidence that the settlement agreement resulted from
mediation, such as:
(i)	 The mediator’s signature on the settlement agreement;
(ii)	 A document signed by the mediator indicating that
the mediation was carried out;
(iii) A
  n attestation by the institution that administered
the mediation; or
(iv)	 In the absence of (i), (ii) or (iii), any other evidence
acceptable to the competent authority.
2. The requirement that a settlement agreement shall be signed by
the parties or, where applicable, the mediator is met in relation to an
electronic communication if:
(a) A method is used to identify the parties or the mediator
and to indicate the parties’ or mediator’s intention in respect of the
information contained in the electronic communication; and
(b) The method used is either:
(i)	 As reliable as appropriate for the purpose for which
the electronic communication was generated or
communicated, in the light of all the circumstances,
including any relevant agreement; or
(ii)	 
Proven in fact to have fulfilled the functions
described in subparagraph (a) above, by itself or
together with further evidence.
5

3. If the settlement agreement is not in an official language of the
Party to the Convention where relief is sought, the competent
authority may request a translation thereof into such language.
4. The competent authority may require any necessary document
in order to verify that the requirements of the Convention have been
complied with.
5. When considering the request for relief, the competent authority
shall act expeditiously.

Article 5. Grounds for refusing to grant relief
1. The competent authority of the Party to the Convention where
relief is sought under article 4 may refuse to grant relief at the request
of the party against whom the relief is sought only if that party
furnishes to the competent authority proof that:
(a) A party to the settlement agreement was under some
incapacity;
(b) The settlement agreement sought to be relied upon:
(i)	 Is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being
performed under the law to which the parties have
validly subjected it or, failing any indication thereon,
under the law deemed applicable by the competent
authority of the Party to the Convention where
relief is sought under article 4;
(ii)	 Is not binding, or is not final, according to its terms;
or
(iii) Has been subsequently modified;
(c) The obligations in the settlement agreement:
(i) Have been performed; or
(ii) Are not clear or comprehensible;
(d) Granting relief would be contrary to the terms of the
settlement agreement;
(e) There was a serious breach by the mediator of standards
applicable to the mediator or the mediation without which breach
that party would not have entered into the settlement agreement; or
(f) There was a failure by the mediator to disclose to the
parties circumstances that raise justifiable doubts as to the mediator"s
impartiality or independence and such failure to disclose had a
material impact or undue influence on a party without which failure
that party would not have entered into the settlement agreement.
6

2. The competent authority of the Party to the Convention where
relief is sought under article 4 may also refuse to grant relief if it finds
that:
(a) Granting relief would be contrary to the public policy of
that Party; or
(b) The subject matter of the dispute is not capable of
settlement by mediation under the law of that Party.

Article 6. Parallel applications or claims
If an application or a claim relating to a settlement agreement has
been made to a court, an arbitral tribunal or any other competent
authority which may affect the relief being sought under article 4,
the competent authority of the Party to the Convention where such
relief is sought may, if it considers it proper, adjourn the decision and
may also, on the request of a party, order the other party to give
suitable security.

Article 7. Other laws or treaties
This Convention shall not deprive any interested party of any right
it may have to avail itself of a settlement agreement in the manner
and to the extent allowed by the law or the treaties of the Party to
the Convention where such settlement agreement is sought to be
relied upon.

Article 8. Reservations
1.

A Party to the Convention may declare that:

(a) It shall not apply this Convention to settlement agreements
to which it is a party, or to which any governmental agencies or any
person acting on behalf of a governmental agency is a party, to the
extent specified in the declaration;
(b) It shall apply this Convention only to the extent that the
parties to the settlement agreement have agreed to the application of
the Convention.
2. No reservations are permitted except those expressly authorized
in this article.
3. Reservations may be made by a Party to the Convention at any time. Reservations made at the time of signature shall be subject to
confirmation upon ratification, acceptance or approval. Such
reservations shall take effect simultaneously with the entry into force of this Convention in respect of the Party to the Convention
concerned. Reservations made at the time of ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto, or at the time of making a declaration under article 13 shall take effect simultaneously
with the entry into force of this Convention in respect of the Party to the Convention concerned. Reservations deposited after the entry
into force of the Convention for that Party to the Convention shall
take effect six months after the date of the deposit.
4. Reservations and their confirmations shall be deposited with
the depositary.
5. Any Party to the Convention that makes a reservation under
this Convention may withdraw it at any time. Such withdrawals are
to be deposited with the depositary, and shall take effect six months
after deposit.

Article 9. Effect on settlement agreements
The Convention and any reservation or withdrawal thereof shall
apply only to settlement agreements concluded after the date when
the Convention, reservation or withdrawal thereof enters into force
for the Party to the Convention concerned.

Article 10. Depositary
The Secretary-General of the United Nations is hereby designated as
the depositary of this Convention.

Article 11. Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval,
accession
1. This Convention is open for signature by all States in Singapore,
on 7 August 2019, and thereafter at United Nations Headquarters in
New York.
2. This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval
by the signatories.
3. This Convention is open for accession by all States that are not
signatories as from the date it is open for signature.
4. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession
are to be deposited with the depositary.



Article 12. Participation by regional economic integration
organizations
1. A regional economic integration organization that is constituted
by sovereign States and has competence over certain matters governed
by this Convention may similarly sign, ratify, accept, approve or accede
to this Convention. The regional economic integration organization
shall in that case have the rights and obligations of a Party to the
Convention, to the extent that that organization has competence over
matters governed by this Convention. Where the number of Parties to
the Convention is relevant in this Convention, the regional economic
integration organization shall not count as a Party to the Convention
in addition to its member States that are Parties to the Convention.
2. The regional economic integration organization shall, at the
time of signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession,
make a declaration to the depositary specifying the matters governed
by this Convention in respect of which competence has been
transferred to that organization by its member States. The regional
economic integration organization shall promptly notify the
depositary of any changes to the distribution of competence,
including new transfers of competence, specified in the declaration
under this paragraph.
3. Any reference to a "Party to the Convention, "Parties to the
Convention, a "State or "States in this Convention applies equally
to a regional economic integration organization where the context
so requires.
4. This Convention shall not prevail over conflicting rules of a
regional economic integration organization, whether such rules were
adopted or entered into force before or after this Convention: (a) if,
under article 4, relief is sought in a State that is member of such an
organization and all the States relevant under article 1, paragraph 1,
are members of such an organization; or (b) as concerns the
recognition or enforcement of judgments between member States of
such an organization.

Article 13. Non-unified legal systems
1. If a Party to the Convention has two or more territorial units
in which different systems of law are applicable in relation to the
matters dealt with in this Convention, it may, at the time of signature,
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, declare that this
Convention is to extend to all its territorial units or only to one or
more of them, and may amend its declaration by submitting another
declaration at any time.


2. These declarations are to be notified to the depositary and are
to state expressly the territorial units to which the Convention
extends.
3. If a Party to the Convention has two or more territorial units
in which different systems of law are applicable in relation to the
matters dealt with in this Convention:
(a) Any reference to the law or rule of procedure of a State
shall be construed as referring, where appropriate, to the law or rule
of procedure in force in the relevant territorial unit;
(b) Any reference to the place of business in a State shall be
construed as referring, where appropriate, to the place of business in
the relevant territorial unit;
(c) Any reference to the competent authority of the State
shall be construed as referring, where appropriate, to the competent
authority in the relevant territorial unit.
4. If a Party to the Convention makes no declaration under
paragraph 1 of this article, the Convention is to extend to all territorial
units of that State.

Article 14. Entry into force
1. This Convention shall enter into force six months after deposit of
the third instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
2. When a State ratifies, accepts, approves or accedes to this
Convention after the deposit of the third instrument of ratification,
acceptance, approval or accession, this Convention shall enter into force
in respect of that State six months after the date of the deposit of its
instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. The
Convention shall enter into force for a territorial unit to which this
Convention has been extended in accordance with article 13 six months
after the notification of the declaration referred to in that article.

Article 15. Amendment
1. Any Party to the Convention may propose an amendment to
the present Convention by submitting it to the Secretary-General of
the United Nations. The Secretary-General shall thereupon
communicate the proposed amendment to the Parties to the
Convention with a request that they indicate whether they favour a
conference of Parties to the Convention for the purpose of
considering and voting upon the proposal. In the event that within
four months from the date of such communication at least one third


of the Parties to the Convention favour such a conference, the
Secretary-General shall convene the conference under the auspices
of the United Nations.
2. The conference of Parties to the Convention shall make every
effort to achieve consensus on each amendment. If all efforts at
consensus are exhausted and no consensus is reached, the amendment
shall, as a last resort, require for its adoption a two-thirds majority
vote of the Parties to the Convention present and voting at the
conference.
3. An adopted amendment shall be submitted by the depositary
to all the Parties to the Convention for ratification, acceptance or
approval.
4. An adopted amendment shall enter into force six months after
the date of deposit of the third instrument of ratification, acceptance
or approval. When an amendment enters into force, it shall be
binding on those Parties to the Convention that have expressed
consent to be bound by it.
5. When a Party to the Convention ratifies, accepts or approves
an amendment following the deposit of the third instrument of
ratification, acceptance or approval, the amendment shall enter into
force in respect of that Party to the Convention six months after the
date of the deposit of its instrument of ratification, acceptance or
approval.

Article 16. Denunciations
1. A Party to the Convention may denounce this Convention by
a formal notification in writing addressed to the depositary. The
denunciation may be limited to certain territorial units of a nonunified legal system to which this Convention applies.
2. The denunciation shall take effect 12 months after the
notification is received by the depositary. Where a longer period for
the denunciation to take effect is specified in the notification, the
denunciation shall take effect upon the expiration of such longer
period after the notification is received by the depositary. The
Convention shall continue to apply to settlement agreements concluded
before the denunciation takes effect.
DONE in a single original, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English,
French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic.



