The States Parties to this Convention,

Having recognised the desirability of determining by agreement certain rules
relating to the carriage of goods by sea,

Have decided to conclude a Convention for this purpose and have thereto agreed
as follows:

PART I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
***************************

ARTICLE 1 - DEFINITIONS
-----------------------

In this Convention:

1. "Carrier" means any person by whom or in whose name a contract of carriage
of goods by sea has been concluded with a shipper.

2. "Actual carrier" means any person to whom the performance of the carriage of
the goods, or of part of the carriage, has been entrusted by the carrier, and
includes any other person to whom such performance has been entrusted.

3. "Shipper" means any person by whom or in whose name or on whose behalf a
contract of carriage of goods by sea has been concluded with a carrier, or any
person by whom or in whose name or on whose behalf the goods are actually
delivered to the carrier in relation to the contract of carriage by sea.

4. "Consignee" means the person entitled to take delivery of the goods.

5. "Goods" includes live animals; where the goods are consolidated in a
container, pallet or similarArticle of transport or where they are packed,
"goods" includes suchArticle of transport or packaging if supplied by the
shipper.

6. "Contract of carriage by sea" means any contract whereby the carrier
undertakes against payment of freight to carry goods by sea from one port to
another; however, a contract which involves carriage by sea and also carriage
by some other means is deemed to be a contract of carriage by sea for the
purposes of this Convention only in so far as it relates to the carriage by
sea.

7. "Bill of lading" means a document which evidences a contract of carriage by
sea and the taking over or loading of the goods by the carrier, and by which
the carrier undertakes to deliver the goods against surrender of the document.
A provision in the document that the goods are to be delivered to the order of
a named person, or to order, or to bearer, constitutes such an undertaking.

8. "Writing" includes, inter alia, telegram and telex.

ARTICLE 2 - SCOPE OF APPLICATION
--------------------------------

1. The provisions of this Convention are applicable to all contracts of
carriage by sea between two different States, if:

(a)The port of loading as provided for in the contract of carriage by sea is
located in a Contracting State, or

(b) The port of discharge as provided for in the contract of carriage by sea is
located in a Contracting State, or

(c) One of the optional ports of discharge provided for in the contract of
carriage by sea is the actual port of discharge and such port is located in a
Contracting State, or

(d) The bill of lading or other document evidencing the contract of carriage by
sea is issued in a Contracting State, or

(e) The bill of lading or other document evidencing the contract of carriage by
sea provides that the provisions of this Convention or the legislation of any
State giving effect to them are to govern the contract.

2. The provisions of this Convention are applicable without regard to the
nationality of the ship, the carrier, the actual carrier, the shipper, the
consignee or any other interested person.

3. The provisions of this Convention are not applicable to charter-parties.
However, where a bill of lading is issued pursuant to a charter-party, the
provisions of the Convention apply to such a bill of lading if it governs the
relation between the carrier and the holder of the bill of lading, not being
the charterer.

4. If a contract provides for future carriage of goods in a series of shipments
during an agreed period, the provisions of this Convention apply to each
shipment. However, where a shipment is made under a charter-party, the
provisions of paragraph 3 of thisArticle apply.

ARTICLE 3 - INTERPRETATION OF THE CONVENTION
--------------------------------------------

In the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Convention
regard shall be had to its international character and to the need to promote
uniformity.

PART II - LIABILITY OF THE CARRIER
**********************************

ARTICLE 4 - PERIOD OF RESPONSIBILITY
------------------------------------

1. The responsibility of the carrier for the goods under this Convention covers
the period during which the carrier is in charge of the goods at the port of
loading, during the carriage and at the port of discharge.

2. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of thisArticle, the carrier is deemed to be
in charge of the goods

(a) From the time he has taken over the goods from:

(i) The shipper, or a person acting on his behalf; or

(ii) An authority or other third party to whom, pursuant to law or regulations
applicable at the port of loading, the goods must be handed over for shipment;

(b) Until the time he has delivered the goods:

(i) By handing over the goods to the consignee; or

(ii) In cases where the consignee does not receive the goods from the carrier,
by placing them at the disposal of the consignee in accordance with the
contract or with the law or with the usage of the particular trade, applicable
at the port of discharge, or

(iii) By handing over the goods to an authority or other third party to whom,
pursuant to law or regulations applicable at the port of discharge, the goods
must be handed over.

3. In paragraphs 1 and 2 of thisArticle, reference to the carrier or to the
consignee means, in addition to the carrier or the consignee, the servants or
agents, respectively of the carrier or the consignee.

ARTICLE 5 - BASIS OF LIABILITY
------------------------------

1. The carrier is liable for loss resulting from loss of or damage to the
goods, as well as from delay in delivery, if the occurrence which caused the
loss, damage or delay took place while the goods were in his charge as defined
inArticle 4, unless the carrier proves that he, his servants or agents took all
measures that could reasonably be required to avoid the occurrence and its
consequences.

2. Delay in delivery occurs when the goods have not been delivered at the port
of discharge provided for in the contract of carriage by sea within the time
expressly agreed upon or, in the absence of such agreement, within the time
which it would be reasonable to require of a diligent carrier, having regard to
the circumstances of the case.

3. The person entitled to make a claim for the loss of goods may treat the
goods as lost if they have not been delivered as required by article 4 within
60 consecutive days following the expiry of the time for delivery according to
paragraph 2 of thisArticle.

4. (a) The carrier is liable

(i) For loss or damage to the goods or delay in delivery caused by fire, if the
claimant proves that the fire arose from fault or neglect on the part of the
carrier, his servants or agents;

(ii) For such loss, damage or delay in delivery which is proved by the claimant
to have resulted from the fault or neglect of the carrier, his servants or
agents, in taking all measures that could reasonably be required to put out the
fire and avoid or mitigate its consequences.

(b) In case of fire on board the ship affecting the goods, if the claimant or
the carrier so desires, a survey in accordance with shipment practices must be
held into the cause and circumstances of the fire, and a copy of the surveyor's
report shall be made available on demand to the carrier and the claimant.

5. With respect to live animals, the carrier is not liable for loss, damage or
delay in delivery resulting from any special risks inherent in that kind of
carriage. If the carrier proves that he has complied with any special
instructions given to him by the shipper respecting the animals and that, in
the circumstances of the case, the loss, damage or delay in delivery could be
attributed to such risks, it is presumed that the loss, damage or delay in
delivery was so caused, unless there is proof that all or a part of the loss,
damage or delay in delivery resulted from fault or neglect on the part of the
carrier, his servants or agents.

6. The carrier is not liable, except in general average, where loss, damage or
delay in delivery resulted from measures to save life or from reasonable
measures to save property at sea.

7. Where fault or neglect on the part of the carrier, his servants or agents
combines with another cause to produce loss, damage or delay in delivery the
carrier is liable only to the extent that the loss, damage or delay in delivery
is attributable to such fault or neglect, provided that the carrier proves the
amount of the loss, damage or delay in delivery not attributable thereto.

ARTICLE 6 - LIMITS OF LIABILITY
-------------------------------

1. (a) The liability of the carrier for loss resulting from loss of or damage
to goods according to the provisions ofArticle 5 is limited to an amount
equivalent to 835 units of account per package or other shipping unit or 2.5
units of account per kilogram of gross weight of the goods lost or damaged,
whichever is the higher.

(b) The liability of the carrier for delay in delivery according to the
provisions ofArticle 5 is limited to an amount equivalent to two and a half
times the freight payable for the goods delayed, but no exceeding the total
freight payable under the contract of carriage of goods by sea.

(c) In no case shall the aggregate liability of the carrier, under both
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, exceed the limitation which would
be established under subparagraph (a) of this paragraph for total loss of the
goods with respect to which such liability was incurred.

2. For the purpose of calculating which amount is the higher in accordance with
paragraph 1 (a) of thisArticle, the following rules apply:

(a) Where a container, pallet or similarArticle of transport is used to
consolidate goods, the package or other shipping units enumerated in the bill
of lading, if issued, or otherwise in any other document evidencing the
contract of carriage by sea, as packed in suchArticle of transport are deemed
packages or shipping units. Except as aforesaid the goods in suchArticle of
transport are deemed one shipping unit.

(b) In cases where theArticle of transport itself has been lost or damaged,
thatArticle of transport, if not owned or otherwise supplied by the carrier, is
considered one separate shipping unit.

3. Unit of account means the unit of account mentioned inArticle 26.

4. By agreement between the carrier and the shipper, limits of liability
exceeding those provided for in paragraph 1 may be fixed.

ARTICLE 7 - APPLICATION TO NON-CONTRACTUAL CLAIMS
-------------------------------------------------

1. The defences and limits of liability provided for in this Convention apply
in any action against the carrier in respect of loss or damage to the goods
covered by the contract of carriage by sea, as well as of delay in delivery
whether the action is founded in contract, in tort or otherwise.

2. If such action is brought against a servant or agent of the carrier, such
servant or agent, if he proves that he acted within the scope of his
employment, is entitled to avail himself of the defences and limits of
liability which the carrier is entitled to invoke under this Convention.

3. Except as provided inArticle 8, the aggregate of the amounts recoverable
from the carrier and from any persons referred to in paragraph 2 of thisArticle
shall not exceed the limits of liability provided for in this Convention.

ARTICLE 8 - LOSS OF RIGHT TO LIMIT RESPONSIBILITY
-------------------------------------------------

1. The carrier is not entitled to the benefit of the limitation of liability
provided for inArticle 6 if it is proved that the loss, damage or delay in
delivery resulted from an act or omission of the carrier done with the intent
to cause such loss, damage or delay, or recklessly and with knowledge that such
loss, damage or delay would probably result.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 ofArticle 7, a servant or
agent of the carrier is not entitled to the benefit of the limitation of
liability provided for inArticle 6 if it is proved that the loss, damage or
delay in delivery resulted from an act or omission of such servant or agent,
done with the intent to cause such loss, damage or delay, or recklessly and
with knowledge that such loss, damage or delay would probably result.

ARTICLE 9 - DECK CARGO
----------------------

1. The carrier is entitled to carry the goods on deck only if such carriage is
in accordance with an agreement with the shipper or with the usage of the
particular trade or is required by statutory rules or regulations.

2. If the carrier and the shipper have agreed that the goods shall or may be
carried on deck, the carrier must insert in the bill of lading or other
document evidencing the contract of carriage by sea a statement to that effect.
In the absence of such statement the carrier has the burden of proving that an
agreement for carriage on deck has been entered into; however, the carrier is
not entitled to invoke such an agreement against a third party, including a
consignee, who has acquired the bill of lading in good faith.

3. Where the goods have been carried on deck contrary to the provisions of
paragraph 1 of thisArticle or where the carrier may not under paragraph 2 of
thisArticle invoke an agreement for carriage on deck, the carrier,
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of article 5, is liable for loss
of or damage to the goods, as well as for delay in delivery, resulting solely
from the carriage on deck, and the extent of his liability is to be determined
in accordance with the provisions ofArticle 6 orArticle 8 of this Convention,
as the case may be.

4. Carriage of goods on deck contrary to express agreement for carriage under
deck is deemed to be an act or omission of the carrier within the meaning
ofArticle 8.

ARTICLE 10 - LIABILITY OF THE CARRIER AND ACTUAL CARRIER
--------------------------------------------------------

1. Where the performance of the carriage or part thereof has been entrusted to
an actual carrier, whether or not in pursuance of a liberty under the contract
of carriage by sea to do so, the carrier nevertheless remains responsible for
the entire carriage according to the provisions of this Convention. The carrier
is responsible, in relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier,
for the acts and omissions of the actual carrier and of his servants and agents
acting within the scope of their employment.

2. All the provisions of this Convention governing the responsibility of the
carrier also apply to the responsibility of the actual carrier for the carriage
performed by him. The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 ofArticle 7 and of
paragraph 2 ofArticle 8 apply if an action is brought against a servant or
agent of the actual carrier.

3. Any special agreement under which the carrier assumes obligations not
imposed by this Convention or waives rights conferred by this Convention
affects the actual carrier only if agreed to by him expressly and in writing.
Whether or not the actual carrier has so agreed, the carrier nevertheless
remains bound by the obligations or waivers resulting from such special
agreement.

4. Where and to the extent that both the carrier and the actual carrier are
liable, their liability is joint and several.

5. The aggregate of the amounts recoverable from the carrier, the actual
carrier and their servants and agents shall not exceed the limits of liability
provided for in this Convention.

6. Nothing in thisArticle shall prejudice any right of recourse as between the
carrier and the actual carrier.

ARTICLE 11- THROUGH CARRIAGE
----------------------------

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 ofArticle 10, where a contract
of carriage by sea provides explicitly that a specified part of the carriage
covered by the said contract is to be performed by a named person other than
the carrier, the contract may also provide that the carrier is not liable for
loss, damage or delay in delivery caused by an occurrence which takes place
while the goods are in the charge of the actual carrier during such part of the
carriage. Nevertheless, any stipulation limiting or excluding such liability is
without effect if no judicial proceedings can be instituted against the actual
carrier in a court competent under paragraph 1 or 2 of article 21. The burden
of proving that any loss, damage or delay in delivery has been caused by such
an occurrence rests upon the carrier.

2. The actual carrier is responsible in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2 ofArticle 10 for loss, damage or delay in delivery caused by an
occurrence which takes place while the goods are in his charge.

PART III - LIABILITY OF THE SHIPPER
***********************************

ARTICLE 12- GENERAL RULE
------------------------

The shipper is not liable for loss sustained by the carrier or the actual
carrier, or for damage sustained by the ship, unless such loss or damage was
caused by the fault or neglect of the shipper, his servants or agents. Nor is
any servant or agent of the shipper liable for such loss or damage unless the
loss or damage was caused by fault or neglect on his part.

ARTICLE 13 - SPECIAL RULES ON DANGEROUS GOODS
---------------------------------------------

1. The shipper must mark or label in a suitable manner dangerous goods as
dangerous.

2. Where the shipper hands over dangerous goods to the carrier or an actual
carrier, as the case may be, the shipper must inform him of the dangerous
character of the goods and, if necessary, of the precautions to be taken. If
the shipper fails to do so and such carrier or actual carrier does not
otherwise have knowledge of their dangerous character:

(a) The shipper is liable to the carrier and any actual carrier for the loss
resulting from the shipment of such goods, and

(b) The goods may at any time be unloaded, destroyed or rendered innocuous, as
the circumstances may require, without payment of compensation.

3. The provisions of paragraph 2 of thisArticle may not be invoked by any
person if during the carriage he has taken the goods in his charge with
knowledge of their dangerous character.

4. If, in cases where the provisions of paragraph 2, subparagraph (b), of
thisArticle do not apply or may not be invoked, dangerous goods become an
actual danger to life or property, they may be unloaded, destroyed or rendered
innocuous, as the circumstances may require, without payment of compensation
except where there is an obligation to contribute in general average or where
the carrier is liable in accordance with the provisions ofArticle 5.

PART IV - TRANSPORT DOCUMENTS
*****************************

ARTICLE 14 - ISSUE OF BILL OF LADING
------------------------------------

1. When the carrier or the actual carrier takes the goods in his charge, the
carrier must, on demand of the shipper, issue to the shipper a bill of lading.

2. The bill of lading may be signed by a person having authority from the
carrier. A bill of lading signed by the master of the ship carrying the goods
is deemed to have been signed on behalf of the carrier.

3. The signature on the bill of lading may be in handwriting, printed in
facsimile, perforated, stamped, in symbols, or made by any other mechanical or
electronic means, if no inconsistent with the law of the country where the bill
of lading is issued.

ARTICLE 15- CONTENTS OF BILL OF LADING
--------------------------------------

1. The bill of lading must include, inter alia, the following particulars:

(a) The general nature of the goods, the leading marks necessary for
identification of the goods, an express statement, if applicable, as to the
dangerous character of the goods, the number of packages or pieces, and the
weight of the goods or their quantity otherwise expressed, all such particulars
as furnished by the shipper;

(b) the apparent condition of the goods;

(c) the name and principal place of business of the carrier;

(d) the name of the shipper;

(e) the consignee if named by the shipper;

(f) the port of loading under the contract of carriage by sea and the date on
which the goods were taken over by the carrier at the port of loading;

(g) the port of discharge under the contract of carriage by sea;

(h) the number of originals of the bill of lading, if more than one;

(i) the place of issuance of the bill of lading;

(j) the signature of the carrier or a person acting on his behalf;

(k) the freight to the extent payable by the consignee or other indication that
freight is payable by him;

(l) the statement referred to in paragraph 3 ofArticle 23;

(m) the statement, if applicable, that the goods shall or may be carried on
deck;

(n) the date or the period of delivery of the goods at the port of discharge if
expressly agreed upon between the parties; and

(o) any increased limit or limits of liability where agreed in accordance with
paragraph 4 ofArticle 6.

2. After the goods have been loaded on board, if the shipper so demands, the
carrier must issue to the shipper a "shipped" bill of lading which, in addition
to the particulars required under paragraph 1 of thisArticle, must state that
the goods are on board a named ship or ships, and the date or dates of loading.
If the carrier has previously issued to the shipper a bill of lading or other
document of title with respect to any of such goods, on request of the carrier,
the shipper must surrender such document in exchange for a "shipped" bill of
lading. The carrier may amend any previously issued document in order to meet
the shipper's demand for a "shipped" bill of lading if, as amended, such
document includes all the information required to be contained in a "shipped"
bill of lading.

3. The absence in the bill of lading of one or more particulars referred to in
thisArticle does not affect the legal character of the document as a bill of
lading provided that it nevertheless meets the requirements set out in
paragraph 7 ofArticle 1.

ARTICLE 16 - BILLS OF LADING: RESERVATIONS AND EVIDENTIARY EFFECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------

1. If the bill of lading contains particulars concerning the general nature,
leading marks, number of packages or pieces, weight or quantity of the goods
which the carrier or other person issuing the bill of lading on his behalf
knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect do not accurately represent the
goods actually taken over or, where a "shipped" bill of lading is issued,
loaded, or if he had no reasonable means of checking such particulars, the
carrier or such other person must insert in the bill of lading a reservation
specifying these inaccuracies, grounds of suspicion or the absence of
reasonable means of checking.

2. If the carrier or other person issuing the bill of lading on his behalf
fails to note on the bill of lading the apparent condition of the goods, he is
deemed to have noted on the bill of lading that the goods were in apparent good
condition.

3. Except for particulars in respect of which and to the extent to which a
reservation permitted under paragraph 1 of thisArticle has been entered:

(a) The bill of lading is prima facie evidence of the taking over or, where a
"shipped" bill of lading is issued, loading, by the carrier of the goods as
described in the bill of lading; and

(b) Proof to the contrary by the carrier is not admissible if the bill of
lading has been transferred to a third party, including a consignee, who in
good faith has acted in reliance on the description of the goods therein.

4. A bill of lading which does not, as provided in paragraph 1, subparagraph
(h) ofArticle 15, set forth the freight or otherwise indicate that freight is
payable by the consignee or does not set forth demurrage incurred at the port
of loading payable by the consignee, is prima facie evidence that no freight or
such demurrage is payable by him. However, proof to the contrary by the carrier
is not admissible when the bill of lading has been transferred to a third
party, including a consignee, who in good faith has acted in reliance on the
absence in the bill of lading of any such indication.

ARTICLE 17 - GUARANTEES BY THE SHIPPER
--------------------------------------

1. The shipper is deemed to have guaranteed to the carrier the accuracy of
particulars relating to the general nature of the goods, their marks, number,
weight and quantity as furnished by him for insertion in the bill of lading.
The shipper must indemnify the carrier against the loss resulting from
inaccuracies in such particulars. The shipper remains liable even if the bill
of lading has been transferred by him. The right of the carrier to such
indemnity in no way limits his liability under the contract of carriage by sea
to any person other than the shipper.

2. Any letter of guarantee or agreement by which the shipper undertakes to
indemnify the carrier against loss resulting from the issuance of the bill of
lading by the carrier, or by a person acting on his behalf, without entering a
reservation relating to particulars furnished by the shipper for insertion in
the bill of lading, or to the apparent condition of the goods, is void and of
no effect as against any third party, including a consignee, to whom the bill
of lading has been transferred.

3. Such letter of guarantee or agreement is valid as against the shipper unless
the carrier or the person acting on his behalf, by omitting the reservation
referred to in paragraph 2 of thisArticle, intends to defraud a third party,
including a consignee, who acts in reliance on the description of the goods in
the bill of lading. In the latter case, if the reservation omitted relates to
particulars furnished by the shipper for insertion in the bill of lading, the
carrier has no right of indemnity from the shipper pursuant to paragraph 1 of
thisArticle.

4. In the case of intended fraud referred to in paragraph 3 of this article the
carrier is liable, without the benefit of the limitation of liability provided
for in this Convention, for the loss incurred by a third party, including a
consignee, because he has acted in reliance on the description of the goods in
the bill of lading.

ARTICLE 18 - DOCUMENTS OTHER THAN BILLS OF LADING
-------------------------------------------------

Where a carrier issues a document other than a bill of lading to evidence the
receipt of the goods to be carried, such a document is prima facie evidence of
the conclusion of the contract of carriage by sea and the taking over by the
carrier of the goods as therein described.

PART V - CLAIMS AND ACTIONS
***************************

ARTICLE 19 - NOTICE OF LOSS, DAMAGE OR DELAY
--------------------------------------------

1. Unless notice of loss or damage, specifying the general nature of such loss
or damage, is given in writing by the consignee to the carrier not later than
the working day after the day when the goods were handed over to the consignee,
such handing over is prima facie evidence of the delivery by the carrier of the
goods as described in the document of transport or, if no such document has
been issued, in good condition.

2. Where the loss or damage is not apparent, the provisions of paragraph 1 of
thisArticle apply correspondingly if notice in writing is not given within 15
consecutive days after the day when the goods were handed over to the
consignee.

3. If the state of the goods at the time they were handed over to the consignee
has been the subject of a joint survey or inspection by the parties, notice in
writing need not be given of loss or damage ascertained during such survey or
inspection.

4. In the case of any actual or apprehended loss or damage the carrier and the
consignee must give all reasonable facilities to each other for inspecting and
tallying the goods.

5. No compensation shall be payable for loss resulting from delay in delivery
unless a notice has been given in writing to the carrier within 60 consecutive
days after the day when the goods were handed over to the consignee.

6. If the goods have been delivered by an actual carrier, any notice given
under thisArticle to him shall have the same effect as if it had been given to
the carrier, and any notice given to the carrier shall have effect as if given
to such actual carrier.

7. Unless notice of loss or damage, specifying the general nature of the loss
or damage, is given in writing by the carrier or actual carrier to the shipper
not later than 90 consecutive days after the occurrence of such loss or damage
or after the delivery of the goods in accordance with paragraph 2 ofArticle 4,
whichever is later, the failure to give such notice is prima facie evidence
that the carrier or the actual carrier has sustained no loss or damage due to
the fault or neglect of the shipper, his servants or agents.

8. For the purpose of thisArticle, notice given to a person acting on the
carrier's or the actual carriers' behalf, including the master or the officer
in charge of the ship, or to a person acting on the shipper's behalf is deemed
to have been given to the carrier, to the actual carrier or to the shipper,
respectively.

ARTICLE 20 - LIMITATION OF ACTIONS
----------------------------------

1. Any action relating to carriage of goods under this Convention is
time-barred if judicial or arbitral proceedings have not been instituted within
a period of two years.

2. The limitation period commences on the day on which the carrier has
delivered the goods or part thereof or, in cases where no goods have been
delivered, on the last day on which the goods should have been delivered.

3. The day on which the limitation period commences is not included in the
period.

4. The person against whom a claim is made may at any time during the running
of the limitation period extend that period by a declaration in writing to the
claimant. This period may be further extended by another declaration or
declarations.

5. An action for indemnity by a person held liable may be instituted even after
the expiration of the limitation period provided for in the preceding
paragraphs if instituted within the time allowed by the law of the State where
proceedings are instituted. However, the time allowed shall not be less than 90
days commencing from the day when the person instituting such action for
indemnity has settled the claim or has been served with process in the action
against himself.

ARTICLE 21 - JURISDICTION
-------------------------

1. In judicial proceedings relating to carriage of goods under this Convention
the plaintiff, at his option, may institute an action in a court which,
according to the law of the State where the court is situated, is competent and
within the jurisdiction of which is situated one of the following places:

(a) The principal place of business or, in the absence thereof, the habitual
residence of the defendant; or

(b) The place where the contract was made provided that the defendant has there
a place of business, branch or agency through which the contract was made; or

(c) The port of loading or the port of discharge; or

(d) Any additional place designated for that purpose in the contract of
carriage by sea.

2. (a) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of thisArticle, an action may
be instituted in the courts of any port or place in a Contracting State at
which the carrying vessel or any other vessel of the same ownership may have
been arrested in accordance with applicable rules of the law of that State and
of international law. However, in such a case, at the petition of the
defendant, the claimant must remove the action, at his choice, to one of the
jurisdictions referred to in paragraph 1 of thisArticle for the determination
of the claim, but before such removal the defendant must furnish security
sufficient to ensure payment of any judgement that may subsequently be awarded
to the claimant in the action.

(b) All questions relating to the sufficiency or otherwise of the security
shall be determined by the court of the port or place of the arrest.

3. No judicial proceedings relating to carriage of goods under this Convention
may be instituted in a place not specified in paragraph 1 or 2 of thisArticle.
The provisions of this paragraph do not constitute an obstacle to the
jurisdiction of the Contracting States for provisional or protective measures.

4. (a) Where an action has been instituted in a court competent under paragraph
i or 2 of thisArticle or where judgement has been delivered by such a court, no
new action may be started between the same parties on the same grounds unless
the judgement of the court before which the first action instituted is not
enforceable in the country in which the new proceedings are instituted.

(b) For the purpose of thisArticle the institution of measures with a view to
obtaining enforcement of a judgement is not to be considered as the starting of
a new action;

(c) For the purpose of thisArticle, the removal of an action to a different
court within the same country, or to a court in another country, in accordance
with paragraph 2 (a) of thisArticle, is not to be considered as the starting of
a new action.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, an agreement
made by the parties, after a claim under the contract of carriage by sea has
arisen, which designates the place where the claimant may institute an action,
is effective.

ARTICLE 22 - ARBITRATION
------------------------

1. Subject to the provisions of thisArticle, parties may provide by agreement
evidenced in writing that any dispute that may arise relating to carriage of
goods under this Convention shall be referred to arbitration.

2. Where a charter-party contains a provision that disputes arising thereunder
shall be referred to arbitration and a bill of lading issued pursuant to the
charterparty does not contain a special annotation providing that such
provision shall be binding upon the holder of the bill of lading, the carrier
may not invoke such provision as against a holder having acquired the bill of
lading in good faith.

3. The arbitration proceedings shall, at the option of the claimant, be
instituted at one of the following places:

(a) A place in a State within whose territory is situated:

(i) The principal place of business of the defendant or, in the absence
thereof, the habitual residence of the defendant; or

(ii) The place where the contract was made, provided that the defendant has
there a place of business, branch or agency through which the contract was
made; or

(iii) The port of loading or the port of discharge; or

(b) Any place designated for that purpose in the arbitration clause or
agreement.

4. The arbitrator or arbitration tribunal shall apply the rules of this
Convention.

5. The provisions of paragraph 3 and 4 of thisArticle are deemed to be part of
every arbitration clause or agreement, and any term of such clause or agreement
which is inconsistent therewith is null and void.

6. Nothing in thisArticle affects the validity of an agreement relating to
arbitration made by the parties after the claim under the contract of carriage
by sea has arisen.

PART VI - SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
**********************************

ARTICLE 23 - CONTRACTUAL STIPULATIONS
-------------------------------------

1. Any stipulation in a contract of carriage by sea, in a bill of lading, or in
any other document evidencing the contract of carriage by sea is null and void
to the extent that it derogates, directly or indirectly, from the provisions of
this Convention. The nullity of such a stipulation does not affect the validity
of the other provisions of the contract or document of which it forms a part. A
clause assigning benefit of insurance of the goods in favour of the carrier, or
any similar clause, is null and void.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of thisArticle, a carrier may
increase his responsibilities and obligations under this Convention.

3. Where a bill of lading or any other document evidencing the contract of
carriage by sea is issued, it must contain a statement that the carriage is
subject to the provisions of this Convention which nullify any stipulation
derogating therefrom to the detriment of the shipper or the consignee.

4. Where the claimant in respect of the goods has incurred loss as a result of
a stipulation which is null and void by virtue of the presentArticle, or as a
result of the omission of the statement referred to in paragraph 3 of
thisArticle, the carrier must pay compensation to the extent required in order
to give the claimant compensation in accordance with the provisions of this
Convention for any loss of or damage to the goods as well as for delay in
delivery. The carrier must, in addition pay compensation for costs incurred by
the claimant for the purpose of exercising his right, provided that costs
incurred in the action where the foregoing provision is invoked are to be
determined in accordance with the law of the State where proceedings are
instituted.

ARTICLE 24 - GENERAL AVERAGE
----------------------------

1. Nothing in this Convention shall prevent the application of provisions in
the contract of carriage by sea or national law regarding the adjustment of
general average.

2. With the exception ofArticle 20, the provisions of this Convention relating
to the liability of the carrier for loss of or damage to the goods also
determine whether the consignee may refuse contribution in general average and
the liability of the carrier to indemnify the consignee in respect of any such
contribution made or any salvage paid.

ARTICLE 25 - OTHER CONVENTIONS
------------------------------

1. This Convention does not modify the rights or duties of the carrier, the
actual carrier and their servants and agents, provided for in international
conventions or national law relating to the limitation of liability of owners
of seagoing ships.

2. The provisions ofArticles 21 and 22 of this Convention do not prevent the
application of the mandatory provisions of any other multilateral convention
already in force at the date of this Convention relating to matters dealt with
in the saidArticles, provided that the dispute arises exclusively between
parties having their principal place of business in States members of such
other convention. However, this paragraph does not affect the application of
paragraph 4 ofArticle 22 of this Convention.

3. No liability shall arise under the provisions of this Convention for damage
caused by a nuclear incident if the operator of a nuclear installation is
liable for such damage:

(a) Under either the Paris Convention of 29 July 1960 on Third Party Liability
in the Field of Nuclear Energy as amended by the Additional Protocol of 28
January 1964 or the Vienna Convention of 21 May 1963 on Civil Liability for
Nuclear Damage, or

(b) By virtue of national law governing the liability for such damage, provided
that such law is in all respects as favourable to persons who may suffer damage
as either the Paris or Vienna Conventions.

4. No liability that arise under the provisions of this Convention for any loss
of or damage to or delay in delivery of luggage for which the carrier is
responsible under any international convention or national law relating to the
carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea.

5. Nothing contained in this Convention prevents a Contracting State from
applying any other international convention which is already in force at the
date of this Convention and which applies mandatorily to contracts of carriage
of goods primarily by a mode of transport other than transport by sea. This
provision also applies to any subsequent revision or amendment of such
international convention.

ARTICLE 26 - UNIT OF ACCOUNT
----------------------------

l. The unit of account referred to inArticle 6 of this Convention is the
Special Drawing Right as defined by the International Monetary Fund. The
amounts mentioned inArticle 6 are to be converted into the national currency of
a State according to the value of such currency at the date of judgement or the
date agreed upon by the parties. The value of a national currency, in terms of
the Special Drawing Right, of a Contracting State which is a member of the
International Monetary Fund is to be calculated in accordance with the method
of valuation applied by the International Monetary Fund in effect at the date
in question for its operations and transactions. The value of a national
currency in terms of the Special Drawing Right of a Contracting State which is
not a member of the International Monetary Fund is to be calculated in a manner
determined by that State.

2. Nevertheless, those States which are not members of the International
Monetary Fund and whose law does not permit the application of the provisions
of paragraph i of thisArticle may, at the time of signature, or at the time of
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession or at any time thereafter,
declare that the limits of liability provided for in this Convention to be
applied in their territories shall be fixed as: 12,500 monetary units per
package or other shipping unit or 37.5 monetary units per kilogram of gross
weight of the goods.

3. The monetary unit referred to in paragraph 2 of thisArticle corresponds to
sixty-five and a half milligrams of gold of millesimal fineness nine hundred.
The conversion of the amounts referred to in paragraph 2 into the national
currency is to be made according to the law of the State concerned.

4. The calculation mentioned in the last sentence of paragraph I and the
conversion mentioned in paragraph 3 of thisArticle is to be made in such a
manner as to express in the national currency of the Contracting State as far
as possible the same real value for the amounts inArticle 6 as is expressed
there in units of account. Contracting States must communicate to the
depositary the manner of calculation pursuant to paragraph 1 of thisArticle, or
the result of the conversion mentioned in paragraph 3 of thisArticle, as the
case may be, at the time of signature or when depositing their instruments of
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, or when availing themselves of
the option provided for in paragraph 2 of thisArticle and whenever there is a
change in the manner of such calculation or in the result of such conversion.

PART VII - FINAL CLAUSES
************************

ARTICLE 27- DEPOSITARY
----------------------

The Secretary-General of the United Nations is hereby designated as the
depositary of this Convention.

ARTICLE 28 - SIGNATURE, RATIFICATION, ACCEPTANCE, APPROVAL, ACCESSION
---------------------------------------------------------------------

1. This Convention is open for signature by all States until 30 April 1979 at
the Headquarters of the United Nations, New York.

2. This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by the
signatory States.

3. After 30 April 1979, this Convention will be open for accession by all
States which are not signatory States.

4. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval and accession are to be
deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.

ARTICLE 29- RESERVATIONS
------------------------

No reservations may be made to this Convention.

ARTICLE 30 - ENTRY INTO FORCE
-----------------------------

1. This Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following
the expiration of one year from the date of deposit of the 20th instrument of
ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.

2. For each State which becomes a Contracting State to this Convention after
the date of the deposit of the 20th instrument of ratification, acceptance,
approval or accession, this Convention enters into force on the first day of
the month following the expiration of one year after the deposit of the
appropriate instrument on behalf of that State.

3. Each Contracting State shall apply the provisions of this Convention to
contracts of carriage by sea concluded on or after the date of the entry into
force of this Convention in respect of that State.

ARTICLE 31- DENUNCIATION OF OTHER CONVENTIONS
---------------------------------------------

1. Upon becoming a Contracting State to this Convention, any State party to the
International Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules relating to Bills
of Lading signed at Brussels on 25 August 1924 (1924 Convention) must notify
the Government of Belgium as the depositary of the 1924 Convention of its
denunciation of the said Convention with a declaration that the denunciation is
to take effect as from the date when this Convention enters into force in
respect of that State.

2. Upon the entry into force of this Convention under paragraph 1 of article
30, the depositary of this Convention must notify the Government of Belgium as
the depositary of the 1924 Convention of the date of such entry into force, and
of the names of the Contracting States in respect of which the Convention has
entered into force.

3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of thisArticle apply correspondingly in
respect of States parties to the Protocol signed on 23 February 1968 to amend
the International Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules relating to
Bills of Lading signed at Brussels on 25 August 1924.

4. NotwithstandingArticle 2 of this Convention, for the purposes of paragraph 1
of thisArticle, a Contracting State may, if it deems it desirable, defer the
denunciation of the 1924 Convention and of the 1924 Convention as modified by
the 1968 Protocol for a maximum period of five years from the entry into force
of this Convention. It will then notify the Government of Belgium of its
intention. During this transitory period, it must apply to the Contracting
States this Convention to the exclusion of any other one.

ARTICLE 32 - REVISION AND AMENDMENT
-----------------------------------

1. At the request of not less than one-third of the Contracting States to this
Convention, the depositary shall convene a conference of the Contracting States
for revising or amending it.

2. Any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited
after the entry into force of an amendment to this Convention, is deemed to
apply to the Convention as amended.

ARTICLE 33 - REVISION OF THE LIMITATION AMOUNTS AND UNIT OF ACCOUNT OR MONETARY
UNIT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Notwithstanding the provisions ofArticle 32, a conference only for the
purpose of altering the amount specified inArticle 6 and paragraph 2 ofArticle
26, or of substituting either or both of the units defined in paragraphs 1 and
3 ofArticle 26 by other units is to be convened by the depositary in accordance
with paragraph 2 of this article. An alteration of the amounts shall be made
only because of a significant change in their real value.

2. A revision conference is to be convened by the depositary when not less than
one-fourth of the Contracting States so request.

3. Any decision by the conference must be taken by a two-thirds majority of the
participating States. The amendment is communicated by the depositary to all
the Contracting States for acceptance and to all the States signatories of the
Convention for information.

4. Any amendment adopted enters into force on the first day of the month
following one year after its acceptance by two-thirds of the Contracting
States. Acceptance is to be effected by the deposit of a formal instrument to
that effect, with the depositary.

5. After entry into force of an amendment a Contracting State which has
accepted the amendment is entitled to apply the Convention as amended in its
relations with Contracting States which have not within six months after the
adoption of the amendment notified the depositary that they are not bound by
the amendment.

6. Any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited
after the entry into force of an amendment to this Convention, is deemed to
apply to the Convention as amended.

ARTICLE 34 - DENUNCIATION
-------------------------

1. A Contracting State may denounce this Convention at any time by means of a
notification in writing addressed to the depositary.

2. The denunciation takes effect on the first day of the month following the
expiration of one year after the notification is received by the depositary.
Where a longer period is specified in the notification, the denunciation takes
effect upon the expiration of such longer period after the notification is
received by the depositary.

/ [POST PROVISIONS] /
=====================

/ [POST CLAUSES (IF ANY: SIGNED; WITNESSED; DONE; AUTHENTIC TEXTS; & DEPOSITED
CLAUSES)] /
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Done at Hamburg, this thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and
seventy-eight, in a single original, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English,
French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic.

In witness whereof the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorised by
their respective Governments, have signed the present Convention.

Common understanding adopted by the United Nations Conference on the

Carriage of Goods by Sea (A/CONF.89/13, annex 11)

It is the common understanding that the liability of the carrier under this
Convention is based on the principle of presumed fault or neglect. This means
that, as a rule, the burden of proof rests on the carrier but, with respect to
certain cases, the provisions of the Convention modify this rule.

Resolution adopted by the United Nations Conference on the Carriage of Goods by
Sea (A/CON.89/13, annex III)

The United Nations Conference on the Carriage of Goods by Sea,

Noting with appreciation the kind invitation of the Federal Republic of Germany
to hold the Conference in Hamburg,

Being aware that the facilities placed at the disposal of the Conference and
the generous hospitality bestowed on the participants by the Government of the
Federal Republic of Germany and by the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, have
in no small measure contributed to the success of the Conference.

Expresses its gratitude to the Government and people of the Federal Republic of
Germany, and

Having adopted the Convention on the Carriage of Goods by Sea on the basis of a
draft Convention prepared by the United Nations Commission on International
Trade Law at the request of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development,

Expresses its gratitude to the United Nations Commission on International Trade
Law and to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development for their
outstanding contribution to the simplification and harmonisation of the law of
the carriage of goods by sea, and

Decides to designate the Convention adopted by the Conference as the: "UNITED
NATIONS CONVENTION ON THE CARRIAGE OF GOODS BY SEA, 1978", and
