THE GOVERNMENTS UNDERSIGNED
CONSIDERING that it is desirable to amend the Convention on
Damage Caused by Foreign Aircraft to Third Parties on the Surface signed
at Rome on 7 October 1952,
HAVE AGREED as follows:

CHAPTER I
AMENDMENTS TO THE CONVENTION
Article I
The Convention which the provisions of the present Chapter modify
is the Convention on Damage Caused by Foreign Aircraft to Third Parties
on the Surface signed at Rome on 7 October 1952.
Article II
In Article 2 of the Convention the following shall be added as new
paragraph 4:"4. If the aircraft is registered as the property of a State, the
liability devolves upon the person to whom, in accordance with the law of
the State concerned, the aircraft has been entrusted for operation."
Article III
Article 11 of the Convention shall be deleted and replaced by the
following:"Article 11
1. Subject to the provisions of Article 12, the liability for damage
giving a right to compensation under Article 1, for each aircraft and
incident, in respect of all persons liable under this Convention shall not
exceed:
(a) 300 000 Special Drawing Rights for aircraft weighing
2 000 kilogrammes or less;
(b) 300 000 Special Drawing Rights plus 175 Special

Drawing Rights per kilogramme over 2 000 kilogrammes for
aircraft weighing more than 2 000 but not exceeding 6 000 kilogrammes;
(c) 1 000 000 Special Drawing Rights plus 62.5 Special
Drawing Rights per kilogramme over 6 000 kilogrammes for
aircraft weighing more than 6 000 but not exceeding 30 000
kilogrammes;
(d) 2 500 000 Special Drawing Rights plus 65 Special
Drawing Rights per kilogramme over 30 000 kilogrammes for
aircraft weighing more than 30 000 kilogrammes.
2. The liability in respect of loss of life or personal injury shall not
exceed 125 000 Special Drawing Rights per person killed or injured.
3. "Weight" means the maximum weight of the aircraft authorized
by the certificate of airworthiness for take-off, excluding the effect of lifting
gas when used.
4. The sums mentioned in terms of the Special Drawing Right in
paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be deemed to refer to the Special
Drawing Right as defined by the International Monetary Fund. Conversion
of the sums into national currencies shall, in case of judicial proceedings,
be made according to the value of such currencies in terms of the Special
Drawing Right at the date of the judgment. The value of a national
currency, in terms of the Special Drawing Right, of a Contracting State
which is a Member of the International Monetary Fund, shall be calculated
in accordance with the method of valuation applied by the International
Monetary Fund, in effect at the date of the judgment, for its operations and
transactions. The value of a national currency, in terms of the Special
Drawing Right, of a Contracting State which is not a Member of the
International Monetary Fund, shall be calculated in a manner determined by
that Contracting State.
Nevertheless, those States which are not Members of the
International Monetary Fund and whose law does not permit the application
of the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article and of this paragraph
may, at the time of ratification or accession or at any time thereafter,
declare that the limit of liability provided for in this Convention shall, in
judicial proceedings in their territories, be fixed as follows:
(a) 4 500 000 monetary units for aircraft referred to in
subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article;
(b) 4 500 000 monetary units plus 2 625 monetary units
per kilogramme for aircraft referred to in subparagraph (b) of
paragraph 1 of this Article;
(c) 15 000 000 monetary units plus 937.5 monetary units
per kilogramme for aircraft referred to in subparagraph (c) of
paragraph 1 of this Article;
(d) 37 500 000 monetary units plus 975 monetary units per

kilogramme for aircraft referred to in subparagraph (d) of
paragraph 1 of this Article;
(e) 1 875 000 monetary units in respect of loss of life or
personal injury referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article.
The monetary unit referred to in this paragraph corresponds to
sixty-five and a half milligrammes of gold of millesimal fineness nine
hundred. This sum may be converted into the national currency concerned
in round figures. The conversion of this sum into the national currency shall
be made according to the law of the State concerned."

Article IV
Article 14 of the Convention shall be deleted and replaced by the
following:"Article 14
If the total amount of the claims established exceeds the limit of
liability applicable under the provisions of this Convention, the following
rules shall apply, taking into account the provisions of paragraph 2 of
Article 11:
(a) if the claims are exclusively in respect of loss of life or
personal injury or exclusively in respect of damage to property,
such claims shall be reduced in proportion to their respective
amounts;
(b) if the claims are both in respect of loss of life or
personal injury and in respect of damage to property, the total sum
distributable shall be appropriated preferentially to meet
proportionately the claims in respect of loss of life and personal
injury. The remainder, if any, of the total sum distributable shall
be distributed proportionately among the claims in respect of
damage to property."

Article V
In the title of Chapter III the word "SECURITY" shall be deleted
and replaced by "GUARANTEE".
Article VI
In Article 15 of the Convention-

(a) paragraph 1 shall be deleted and replaced by the
following:"1. Any Contracting State may require that the operator of
an aircraft referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 23 shall be covered
by insurance or guaranteed by other security in respect of his
liability for damage sustained in its territory for which a right of
compensation exists under Article 1 up to the limits applicable
according to the provisions of Article 11. The operator shall
provide evidence of such guarantee if the State overflown so
requests."
(b) paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 shall be deleted;
(c) paragraph 7 shall be renumbered as paragraph 2 and
shall read as follows:"2. A Contracting State overflown may at any time require
consultation with the State of the aircraft's registry, with the State
of the operator or with any other Contracting State where the
guarantees are provided, if it believes that the insurer or other
person providing the guarantee is not financially capable of meeting
the obligations imposed by this Convention."
(d) paragraph 8 shall be renumbered as paragraph 3;
(e) paragraph 9 shall be deleted.

Article VII
In Article 16 of the Convention(a) the word "security" in paragraph 1 shall be deleted and
replaced by "guarantee";
(b) subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following:"(a) that the damage occurred after the guarantee ceased
to be effective. However, if the guarantee expires during a flight,
it should be continued in force until the next landing specified in
the flight plan, but no longer than twenty-four hours;"
(c) subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following:"(b) that the damage occurred outside the territorial limits
provided by the guarantee, unless flight outside of such limits was
caused by force majeure, assistance justified by the circumstances
or an error in piloting, operation or navigation."
(d) paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be deleted;
(e) paragraph 4 shall be renumbered as paragraph 2 and
the word "security" shall be deleted and replaced by "guarantee";
(f) paragraph 5 shall be renumbered as paragraph 3 and
the words "governing the contract of insurance or guarantee" shall

be deleted and replaced by "applicable to the guarantee"; in
subparagraph (a) of that paragraph the word "security" shall be
deleted and replaced by "guarantee";
(g) paragraphs 6 and 7 shall be renumbered as paragraphs
4 and 5, respectively, and in the new paragraph 4 the word
"security" shall be replaced by "guarantee".
Article VIII
In Article 17 of the Convention(a) paragraph 1 shall be deleted and replaced by the
following:"1. If a guarantee is furnished in accordance with Article
15, it shall be specifically and preferentially assigned to payment
of claims under the provisions of this Convention."
(b) in paragraph 2 the word "security" shall be deleted and
replaced by "guarantee";
(c) paragraph 3 shall be deleted and replaced by the
following:"3. As soon as notice of a claim has been given to the
operator, he shall ensure that the guarantee is maintained up to a
sum equivalent to the aggregate of:
(a) the amount of the guarantee then required by
paragraph 2 of this Article, and
(b) the amount of the claim not exceeding the
applicable limit of liability.
The above-mentioned sum shall be maintained until every
claim has been disposed of."

Article IX
In Article 19 of the Convention no amendment has been made in
the English text.

Article X

In Article 20 of the Convention(a) in paragraph 4 delete the words "or of any territory,
State or province thereof" and replace by "or of any of its
constituent subdivisions, such as States, Republics, territories or
provinces";
(b) in paragraph 9 the subparagraphs shall be designated
as (a), (b) and (c), respectively;
(c) paragraph 11 shall be deleted and replaced by the
following:"11. Interest may be allowed on the judgment debt
according to the law of the Court seized of the case."
(d) in paragraph 12 delete the word "five" and replace by
"two".

Article XI
In Article 21 of the Convention no amendment has been made in
the English text.
Article XII
In Article 23 of the Convention paragraph 1 shall be deleted and
replaced by the following:"1. This Convention applies to damage contemplated in Article 1
caused in the territory of a Contracting State by an aircraft registered in
another Contracting State or by an aircraft, whatever its registration may be,
the operator of which has his principal place of business or, if he has no
such place of business, his permanent residence in another Contracting
State."

Article XIII
Article 26 of the Convention shall be deleted and replaced by the
following:"Article 26
This Convention shall not apply to damage caused by aircraft used
in military, customs and police services."

Article XIV

In the Convention after Article 26 insert Article 27 as follows:"Article 27
This Convention shall not apply to nuclear damage."

Article XV
Articles 27 and 28 of the Convention shall be renumbered as
Articles 28 and 29, respectively.

Article XVI
Article 29 of the Convention shall be deleted.

Article XVII
In Article 30 of the Convention the last two paragraphs shall be
deleted and replaced by the following:" - "Contracting State" means a State for which this Convention is
in force."
" - "State of the Operator" means any Contracting State other than
the State of registry on whose territory the operator has his principal place
of business or, if he has no such place of business, his permanent
residence."

Article XVIII
Articles 36 and 37 of the Convention shall be deleted and in Article
38, which shall be renumbered as Article 36, the words "or of any
declaration of notification made under Articles 36 and 37" shall be deleted;
Article 39 shall be renumbered as Article 37.

CHAPTER II
FINAL PROVISIONS

Article XIX

As between the Parties to this Protocol, the Convention and the
Protocol shall be read and interpreted together as one single instrument and
shall be known as the Rome Convention of 1952 as Amended at Montreal
in 1978.

Article XX
Until the date on which this Protocol comes into force in accordance with Article XXII, it shall remain open for signature by any State.

Article XXI
1. This Protocol shall be subject to ratification by the signatory
States.
2. Ratification of this Protocol by any State which is not a Party to
the Convention shall have the effect of accession to the Convention as
amended by this Protocol.
3. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the
International Civil Aviation Organization.

Article XXII
1. As soon as five of the signatory States have deposited their
instruments of ratification of this Protocol, it shall come into force between
them on the ninetieth day after the date of the deposit of the fifth instrument
of ratification. It shall come into force, for each State which deposits its
instrument of ratification after that date, on the ninetieth day after its deposit
of its instrument of ratification.
2. As soon as this Protocol comes into force, it shall be registered
with the United Nations by the Secretary General of the International Civil
Aviation Organization.
Article XXIII
1. This Protocol shall, after it has come into force, be open for
accession by any non-signatory State.
2. Accession to this Protocol by any State which is not a Party to
the Convention shall have the effect of accession to the Convention as
amended by this Protocol.
3. Accession shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument of
accession with the International Civil Aviation Organization and shall take

effect on the ninetieth day after the deposit.
Article XXIV
1. Any Party to this Protocol may denounce the Protocol by
notification addressed to the International Civil Aviation Organization.
2. Denunciation shall take effect six months after the date of receipt
by the International Civil Aviation Organization of the notification of
denunciation; nevertheless, in respect of damage contemplated in Article 1
of the Convention arising from an incident which occurred before the
expiration of the six months period, the Convention shall continue to apply
as if the denunciation had not been made.
3. As between the Parties to this Protocol, denunciation by any of
them of the Rome Convention of 1952 in accordance with Article 35 thereof
shall not be construed in any way as a denunciation of the Rome Convention
of 1952 as Amended at Montreal in 1978.
Article XXV
No reservations may be made to this Protocol.

Article XXVI
1. The Secretary General of the International Civil Aviation
Organization shall give notice to all States Parties to the Rome Convention
or to that Convention as amended by this Protocol, all signatory and
adhering States and to all States members of the Organization or of the
United Nations:
(a) of the deposit of any instrument of ratification of, or
adherence to, this Protocol and the date of, thereof, within thirty
days from the date of the deposit, and
(b) of the receipt of any denunciation of this Protocol and
the date thereof, within thirty days from the date of the receipt.
2. The Secretary General of the Organization shall also notify these
States of the date on which this Protocol comes into force in accordance
with Article XXII.

Article XXVII
This Protocol shall remain open for signature at the Headquarters
of the International Civil Aviation Organization until it comes into force in
accordance with Article XXII.

DONE at Montreal on the twenty-third day of September of the year
One Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventy-eight in four authentic texts in the
English, French, Russian and Spanish languages.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, having
been duly authorized, have signed this Protocol in the name of

