Article 1
The Contracting States are constituted into a
Union for the protection of the rights of
authors over their literary and artistic works.
Article 2
The expression 'literary and artistic works'
shall include any production in the literary,
scientific or artistic domain, whatever may be
the mode or form of its reproduction, such as
books, pamphlets, and other writings; dramatic or dramatico-musical works, choreographic works and entertainments in dumb
show, the acting form of which is fixed in writing
or otherwise; musical compositions with or
without words; works of drawing, painting,
architecture, sculpture, engraving and lithography; illustrations, geographical charts;
plans, sketches, and plastic works relative to
geography, topography, architecture or science.
Translations, adaptations, arrangements of
music and other reproductions in an altered
form of literary or artistic work as well as
collections of different works, shall be protected as original works without prejudice to
the rights of the author of the original work.
The contracting countries shall be bound to
make provisions for the protection of the
above-mentioned works.
Works of art applied to industrial purposes
shall be protected so far as the domestic legislation of each country allows.
Article 3
The present Convention shall apply to
photographic works and to works produced by
a process analogous to photography. The
contracting countries shall be bound to make
provision for their protection.
Article 4
Authors who are subjects or citizens of any of
the countries of the Union shall enjoy in countries other than the country of origin of the
work, for their works, whether unpublished or
first published in a country of the Union, the
rights which the respective laws do now or may
hereafter grant to natives as well as the rights
specially granted by the present Convention.
The enjoyment and the exercise of these
rights shall not be subject to any formality; such
enjoyment and such exercise are independent of
the existence of protection in the country of origin of the work. Consequently, apart from the
express stipulations of the present Convention,
the extent of protection, as well as the means of
redress secured to the author to safeguard his
rights, shall be governed exclusively by the laws
of the country where protection is claimed.
The country of origin of the work shall be
considered to be: in the case of unpublished
works, the country to which the author
belongs; in the case of published works, the
country of first publication; and in the case of
works published simultaneously in several
countries of the Union, the country the laws of
which grant the shortest term of protection. In
the case of works published simultaneously in a
country outside the Union and in a country of
the Union, the latter country shall be considered exclusively as the country of origin.
By published works must be understood, for
the purposes of the present Convention, works
copies of which have been issued to the public.
The representation of a dramatic or dramaticomusical work, the performance of a musical
work, the exhibition of a work of art, and the
construction of a work of architecture shall not
constitute a publication.
Article 5
Authors being subjects or citizens of one of the
countries of the Union who first publish their
works in another country of the Union shall
have in the latter country the same rights as
native authors.
Article 6
Authors not being subjects or citizens of one of
the countries of the Union, who first publish
their works in one of those countries, shall enjoy
in that country the same rights as native
authors, and in the other countries of the Union
the rights granted by the present Convention.
Article 7
The term of protection granted by the present
Convention shall include the life of the author
and fifty years after his death.
Nevertheless, in case such term of protection
should not be uniformly adopted by all the
countries of the Union, the term shall be regulated by the law of the country where protection is claimed, and must not exceed the term
fixed in the country of origin of the work.
Consequently the contracting countries shall
only be bound to apply the provisions of the
preceding paragraph in so far as such provisions
are consistent with their domestic laws.
For photographic works and works produced by a process analogous to photography,
for posthumous works, for anonymous or
pseudonymous works, the term of protection
shall be regulated by the law of the country
where protection is claimed, provided that the
said term shall not exceed the term fixed in the
country of origin of the work.
Article 8
The authors of unpublished works, being subjects or citizens of one of the countries of the
Union, and the authors of works first published
in one of those countries shall enjoy, in the
other countries of the Union, during the whole
term of the right in the original work, the
exclusive right of making or authorizing a
translation of their works.
Article 9
Serial stories, tales, and all other works,
whether literary, scientific, or artistic, whatever
their object, published in the newspapers or
periodicals of one of the countries of the Union
may not be reproduced in the other countries
without the consent of the authors.
With the exception of serial stories and tales,
any newspaper article may be reproduced by
another newspaper unless the reproduction
thereof is expressly forbidden. Nevertheless,
the source must be indicated; the legal consequences of the breach of this obligation shall be
determined by the laws of the country where
protection is claimed.
The protection of the present Convention
shall not apply to news of the day or to miscellaneous information which is simply of the
nature of items of news.
Article 10
As regards the liberty of extracting portions
from literary or artistic works for use in
publications destined for educational purposes, or having a scientific character, or for
chrestomathies, the effect of the legislation of
the countries of the Union and of special
Arrangements existing or to be concluded
between them is not affected by the present
Convention.
Article 11
The stipulations of the present Convention
shall apply to the public representation of dramatic or dramatico-musical works, and to the
public performance of musical works, whether
such works be published or not.
Authors of dramatic or dramatico-musical
works shall be protected during the existence of
their right over the original work against the
unauthorized public representation of translations of their works.
In order to enjoy the protection of the
present Article, authors shall not be bound in
publishing their works to forbid the public
representation or performance thereof.
Article 12
The following shall be especially included
among the unlawful reproductions to which
the present Convention applies: unauthorized indirect appropriations of a literary or
artistic work, such as adaptations, musical
arrangements, transformations of a novel,
tale, or piece of poetry into a dramatic piece
and vice versa, etc., when they are only the
reproduction of that work, in the same form
or in another form without essential alterations, additions, or abridgments, and do not
present the character of a new original work.
Article 13
The authors of musical works shall have the
exclusive right of authorizing: (1) the adaptation of those works to instruments which can
reproduce them mechanically; (2) the public
performance of the said works by means of
these instruments.
Reservations and conditions relating to the
application of this Article may be determined
by the domestic legislation of each country in so
far as it is concerned; but the effect of any such
reservations and conditions will be strictly limited to the country which has put them in force.
The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not be
retroactive, and consequently shall not be
applicable in any country of the Union to works
which have been lawfully adapted in that country to mechanical instruments before the coming into force of the present Convention.
Adaptations made in virtue of paragraphs 2
and 3 of the present Article, and imported
without the authority of the interested parties
into a country where they would not be lawful,
shall be liable to seizure in that country.
Article 14
Authors of literary, scientific or artistic works
shall have the exclusive right of authorizing the
reproduction and public representation of
their works by cinematography.
Cinematograph productions shall be
protected as literary or artistic works, if, by the
arrangement of the acting form or the combinations of the incidents represented, the author
has given the work a personal and original
character.
Without prejudice to the rights of the
author of the original work the reproduction by cinematography of a literary, scientific
or artistic work shall be protected as an original work.
The above provisions apply to reproduction
or production effected by any other process
analogous to cinematography.
Article 15
In order that the authors of works protected by
the present Convention shall, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, be considered as such,
and be consequently admitted to institute
proceedings against pirates before the Courts
of the various countries of the Union, it will be
sufficient that their name be indicated on the
work in the accustomed manner.
For anonymous or pseudonymous works the
publisher, whose name is indicated on the work,
shall be entitled to protect the rights belonging
to the author. He shall be, without other proof,
deemed to be the legal representative of the
anonymous or pseudonymous author.
Article 16
Pirated works may be seized by the competent
authorities of any country of the Union where
the original work enjoys legal protection.
In such a country the seizure may also apply
to reproductions imported from a country
where the work is not protected, or has ceased
to be protected.
The seizure shall take place in accordance
with the domestic legislation of each country 
Article 17
The provisions of the present Convention
cannot in any way affect the right belonging
to the Government of each country of the
Union to permit, to control, or to prohibit, by
measures of domestic legislation or police, the
circulation, representation, or exhibition of
any works or productions in regard to which
the competent authority may find it necessary
to exercise that right.
Article 18
The present Convention shall apply to all
works which at the moment of its coming into
force have not yet fallen into the public domain
in the country of origin through the expiration
of the term of protection.
If, however, through the expiration of the
term of protection which was previously
granted, a work has fallen into the public
domain of the country where protection is
claimed, that work shall not be protected anew
in that country.
The application of this principle shall take
effect according to the stipulations contained
in special Conventions existing, or to be concluded, to that effect between countries of the
Union. In the absence of such stipulations, the
respective countries shall regulate, each in so far
as it is concerned, the manner in which the said
principle is to be applied.
The above provisions shall apply equally in
case of new accessions to the Union, and also in
the event of the term of protection being
extended by the application of Article 7.
Article 19
The provisions of the present Convention shall
not prevent a claim being made for the application of any wider provision which may be made
by the legislation of a country of the Union in
favour of foreigners in general.
Article 20
The Government of the countries of the Union
reserve to themselves the right to enter into
special arrangements between each other, provided always that such arrangements confer
upon authors more extended rights than those
granted by the Union or embody other stipulations not contrary to the present Convention.
The provisions of existing arrangements which
satisfy the above-mentioned conditions shall
remain applicable.
Article 21
The International Office established under the
name of the 'Office of the International Union
for the Protection of Literary and Artistic
Works 'shall be maintained.
That Office is placed under the high authority
of the Government of the Swiss Confederation,
which regulates its organization and supervises
its working.
The official language of the Office shall be
French.
Article 22
The International Office collects every kind of
information relative to the protection of the
rights of authors over their literary and artistic
works. It arranges and publishes such information. It undertakes the study of questions of
general interest concerning the Union, and by
the aid of documents placed at its disposal by
the different Administrations, edits a periodical publication in the French language on the
questions which concern the purpose of the
Union. The Governments of the countries of
the Union reserve to themselves the power to
authorize by common accord the publication
by the Office of an edition in one or more other
languages, if experience should show this to be
requisite.
The International Office will always
hold itself at the disposal of members of the
Union with the view to furnish them with any
special information which they may require
relative to the protection of literary and
artistic works.
The Director of the International Office
shall make an annual report on his administration, which shall be communicated to all the
members of the Union.
Article 23
The expenses of the Office of the International
Union shall be shared by the contracting
States. Until a fresh arrangement be made they
cannot exceed the sum of 60,000 francs a year.
This sum may be increased, if necessary, by the
simple decision of one of the Conferences
provided for in Article 24.
Rigi-1App.qxd 11/09/2005 11:08 PM Page 11
Appendix
12
The share of the total expense to be paid by
each country shall be determined by the
division of the contracting and acceding
countries into six classes, each of which shall
contribute in the proportion of a certain number of units, viz.:
1st class 25 units
2nd ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 " 3rd ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 " 4th ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 " 5th ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 " 6th ". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 "
These coefficients are multiplied by the
number of countries of each class, and the total
product thus obtained gives the number of
units by which the total expense is to be
divided. The quotient gives the amount of the
unit of expense.
Each country shall declare, at the time of its
accession, in which of the said classes it desires
to be placed.
The Swiss Administration prepares the
budget of the Office, superintends its expenditure, makes the necessary advances, and draws
up the annual account which shall be communicated to all the other Administrations.
Article 24
The present Convention may be submitted to
revisions for the purpose of introducing therein
amendments intended to perfect the system of
the Union.
Questions of this kind, as well as those
which are of interest to the Union in other
respects, shall be considered in Conferences to
be held successively in the countries of the
Union by delegates of the said countries. The
Administration of the country where a
Conference is to meet prepares, with the assistance of the International Office, the programme of the Conference. The Director of the
Office shall attend at the sittings of the
Conferences, and shall take part in the discussions without the right to vote.
No alteration in the present Convention shall
be binding on the Union except by the unanimous consent of the countries composing it.
Article 25
States outside the Union which make provision
for the legal protection of the rights forming
the object of the present Convention may
accede thereto on request to that effect.
Such accession shall be notified in writing to
the Government of the Swiss Confederation,
who will communicate it to all the other
countries of the Union.
Such accession shall imply full acceptance of
all the clauses and admission to all the advantages provided by the present Convention. It
may, nevertheless, contain an indication of the
provisions of the Convention of the 9th
September, 1886, or of the Additional Act of the
4th May, 1896, which they may judge necessary
to substitute, provisionally at least, for the corresponding provisions of the present Convention.
Article 26
Contracting countries shall have the right to
accede to the present Convention at any time
for their Colonies or foreign possessions.
They may do this either by a general
Declaration comprising in the accession all
their Colonies or possessions, or by specially
naming those comprised therein, or by simply
indicating those which are excluded.
Such Declaration shall be notified in writing
to the Government of the Swiss Confederation,
who will communicate it to all the other
countries of the Union.
Article 27
The present Convention shall replace, in
regard to the relations between the Contracting
States, the Convention of Berne of the 9th
September, 1886, including the Additional
Article and the Final Protocol of the same date,
as well as the Additional Act and the
Interpretative Declaration of the 4th May,
1896. These Instruments shall remain in force
in regard to relations with States which do not
ratify the present Convention.
The Signatory States of the present
Convention may declare at the exchange of
ratifications that they desire to remain bound,
as regards any specific point, by the provisions
of the Conventions which they have previously
signed.
Article 28
The present Convention shall be ratified, and
the ratifications exchanged at Berlin not later
than the 1st July, 1910.
Rigi-1App.qxd 11/09/2005 11:08 PM Page 12
Appendix
13
Each Contracting Party shall, as regards the
exchange of ratifications, deliver a single
instrument, which shall be deposited with
those of the other countries in the archives of
the Government of the Swiss Confederation.
Each Party shall receive in return a copy of the
procès-verbal of the exchange of ratifications
signed by the Plenipotentiaries who took part.
Article 29
The present Convention shall be put in force
three months after the exchange of ratifications, and shall remain in force for an indefinite
period until the termination of a year from the
day on which it may have been denounced.
Such denunciation shall be made to the
Government of the Swiss Confederation. It shall
1. Where any country outside the Union fails
to protect in an adequate manner the works of
authors who are subject to the jurisdiction of
one of the contracting countries, nothing in
the Convention of the 13th November 1908
shall affect the right of such contracting
country to restrict the protection given to the
works of authors who are at the date of the
first publication thereof subjects or citizens of
the said non-union country, and are not effectively domiciled in one of the countries of
the Union.
2. The right accorded by the present Protocol
to contracting States belongs equally to any of
their oversea possessions.
3. No restrictions introduced by virtue of
paragraph 1 of the present Protocol shall in any
way affect the rights which an author may have
acquired in respect of a work published in a
country of the Union before such restrictions
were put in force.
4. The States which restrict the grant of
copyright in accordance with the present
Protocol shall give notice thereof to the
Government of the Swiss Confederation by a
written declaration specifying the countries in
regard to which protection is restricted, and
the restrictions to which rights of authors who
are subject to the jurisdiction of these countries are subjected. The Government of the
only take effect in regard to the country making
it, the Convention remaining in full force and
effect for the other countries of the Union.
Article 30
The States which shall introduce in their
legislation the duration of protection for fifty
years contemplated by Article 7, first paragraph, of the present Convention, shall give
notice thereof in writing to the Government of
the Swiss Confederation, who will communicate it at once to all the other States of the
Union.
The same procedure shall be followed in the
case of the States renouncing the reservations
made by them in virtue of Articles 25, 26
and 27.