PROTOCOL TO THE CONVENTION ON THE CONTRACT FOR THE INTERNATIONAL
CARRIAGE OP PASSENGERS AND LUGGAGE BY ROAD (CVR)
THE PARTIES TO THE PRESENT PROTOCOL,
BEING PARTIES to the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of
Passengers and Luggage by Road (CVR), done at Geneva on 1 March 1973,
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1
For the purpose of the present Protocol "Convention" means the Convention on
the Contract for the International Carriage of Passengers and Luggage Ъу Road (CVR).

1.

Article 2
Article 13, paragraph 1 of the Convention is replaced Ъу the following text:
"1. The total damages payable Ъу the carrier in respect of the same
occurrence shall not exceed 83,333 units of account for each victim. Any
Contracting State may, however, set a higher limit or set no limit at all.
When the carrier has his principal establishment in such a State, or in a
поп-сontracting State whose legislation provides for a higher limit or does
not provide for a limit at all, the law of that State, not including the
rules relating to conflict of laws, shall apply for the determination of the
total amount."

2.

Article 16, paragraph 1 of the Convention is replaced Ъу the following text:
"1. When under the provisions of this Convention a carrier is liable for
compensation in respect of total or partial loss of or in respect of damage
to luggage, such compensation shall Ъе claimable in an amount equal to the
amount of the loss or damage, but it shall not exceed 166.67 units of account
for each piece of luggage nor 666.67 units of account for each passenger.
Compensation may also be claimed in respect of total or partial loss of or

3.

in respect of damage to personal effects carried or worn by the passenger,
but it shall not exceed 333.33 units of account for each passenger."
Article 19 of the Convention is replaced by the following text;
"1. The Unit of Account mentioned in this Convention is the Special Drawing
Right as defined by the International Monetary Fund. The amounts mentioned
in articles 13 and 16 of this Convention shall be converted into the national
currency of the State of the Court seized of the case on the basis of the
value of that currency on 'the date of the judgement or the date agreed upon
by the Parties. The value of the national currency, in terms of the
Special Drawing Right, of a State which is a member-of the International

Monetary Fund, shall be calculated in accordance with the method of valuation
applied by the International Monetary Fund in effect at the date in question
for its operations and transactions.
The value of the national currency,
in terms of the Special Drawing Right, of a State which is not a member of
the International Monetary Fund, shall be calculated in a manner determined
by that State.
2. Nevertheless, a State which is not a member of the International Monetary
Fund and whose law does not permit the application of the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this article may, at the time of ratification of or accession
to the Protocol to the CVR or at any time thereafter, declare that the limits
of liability provided for in this Convention to be applied in its territory
shall be fixed as follows:
(a) in respect of article 13, paragraph 1, 250,000 monetary units;
(b) in respect of article 16, paragraph 1, first sentence: 500 monetary
units for each piece of luggage not exceeding 2,000 monetary units
for each passenger?
(c) in respect of article 16, paragraph 1, second sentence:
1,000 monetary units.
The monetary unit referred to in this paragraph corresponds to 10/31 gramme of
gold of millesimal fineness nine hundred.
The conversion of these amounts
into the national currency shall be made according to the law of the State
concerned.
3. The calculation mentioned in the last sentence of paragraph 1 of this
article and the conversion mentioned in paragraph 2 of this article shall be
made in such a manner as to express in the national currency of the State as
far as possible the same real value for the amounts in articles 13 and 16 of
this Convention as is expressed there in units of account. States shall
communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations the manner of
calculation pursuant to paragraph 1 of this article or the result of the
conversion in paragraph 2 of this article as the case may be, when depositing
an instrument referred to in article 3 of the Protocol to the CVR and
whenever there is a change in either."
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 5

1.
This Protocol shall be open for signature by States which are signatories to,
or have acceded to the Convention and are either members of the Economic Commission
for Europe or have been admitted to that Commission in a consultative capacity
under paragraph 8 of that Commission's terms of reference.

2. This Protocol shall remain open for accession by any of the States referred to
in paragraph 1 of this article which are Parties to the Convention.
3. Such States as may participate in certain activities of the Economic Commission
for Europe in accordance with paragraph 11 of that Commission's terms of reference
which have acceded to the Convention may become Contracting Parties to this Protocol
by acceding thereto after its entry into force.
4. This Protocol shall be open for signature at Geneva from 1 September 1978 until
31 August 1979 inclusive. Thereafter, it shall be open for accession.
5. This Protocol shall be subject to ratification after the State concerned has
ratified or acceded to the Convention.
6.. The instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations.
7. Any instrument of ratification or accession deposited after the entry into
force of an amendment to the present Protocol with respect to all Contracting
Parties or after the completion of all measures required for the entry into force
of the amendment with respect to all Contracting Parties shall be deemed to apply
to the Protocol as modified by the amendment.
Article 4
1. This Protocol shall come into force on the ninetieth day after five of the
States referred to in article 3, paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Protocol have
deposited their instruments of ratification or accession.
2. However, this Protocol shall not enter into force before the Convention has
entered into force.
3. Por any State ratifying or acceding to it after five States have deposited
their instruments of ratification or accession, this Protocol shall enter into
force on the ninetieth day after the said State has deposited its instrument of
ratification or accession.
Article !5
1. Any Contracting Party may denounce this Protocol by so notifying the
Secretary-General of the United Nations,
2. Denunciation shall take effect twelve months after the date of receipt by
the Secretary-General of the notification of denunciation.
3. Any Contracting Party which ceases to be a Party to the Convention shall on
the same date cease to be Party to this Protocol.

Article 6
If, after the entry into force of this Protocol, the number of Contracting
Parties is reduced, as a result of denunciations, to less than five, this
Protocol shall cease to be in force from the date on which the last of such
denunciations takes effect. It shall also cease to be in force from the date
on which the Convention ceases to be in force.
Article 7
1. Any State may, at the time of depositing its instrument of ratification or
accession, or at any time thereafter, declare by a notification addressed to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations that this Protocol shall extend to all or
any of the territories for whose international relations it is responsible and in
respect of which it has made a declaration in accordance with article 28 of the
Convention.
This Protocol shall extend to the territory or territories named
in the notification as from the ninetieth day after its receipt by the
Secretary-General or, if on that day the Protocol has not yet entered into force,
as from its entry into force.
2. Any State which has made a declaration under paragraph 1 of this article
extending this Protocol to any territory for whose international relations it is
responsible may denounce the Protocol separately in respect of that territory in
conformity with article 5 above.
Article 8
Any dispute .between-two or more Contracting Parties relating to the
interpretation or application of this Protocol which the parties are unable to
settle by negotiation or other means may, at the request of any one of the
Contracting Parties concerned, be referred for settlement to the International
Court of Justice.
Article 9
1. Bach Contracting Party may, at the time of signing, ratifying, or acceding
to this Protocol declare by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of
the United Nations that it does not consider itself bound by article 8 of this
Protocol.

Other Contracting Parties shall not be bound by article 8 in respect

»

of any Contracting Party which has entered such a reservation.
2.
The declaration referred to in paragraph 1 of this article may be Withdrawn
at any time by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations.

Article 10

1. Any Contracting Party to the Agreement on General Conditions for International
Carriage of Passengers by Bus, signed at Berlin on 5 December 1970, may at the time
of signing, ratifying or acceding to this Protocol or at any time thereafter,
declare by a notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations
that in the event of conflict between this Protocol and the aforesaid Agreement
it will apply the provisions of the latter to an operation for which, according to
the contract of carriage,
(a) the places of departure and of destination are situated in the
territory of a State which has made the declaration, or
(b) carriage is to take place in the territory of at least one State which
has made the said declaration and is not to take place in the territory
of any Contracting Party to this Protocol which has not made the
declaration.
2. The declaration referred to in paragraph 1. of this article may be withdrawn
at any time by notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Article 11
No reservation or declaration other than those envisaged under articles 9 and
10 of this Protocol shall be permitted.
Article 12
1.

After this Protocol has been in force for three years, any Contracting Party

rosy» Ъу

a

notification addressed to the Secretary-General of the United Nations,

request that a conference be convened for the purpose of amending or reviewing
this Protocol.

The Secretary-General shall notify all Contracting Parties of the

request and a conference shall be convened by the Secretary-General for that
purpose if, within a period of four months following the date of notification by
the Secretary-General, not less than one-fourth of the Contracting Parties notify
him of their concurrence with the request.
2.

If a conference is convened in pursuance of paragraph 1 of this article, the

Secretary-General shall notify all the Contracting. Parties and invite them to
submit within a period of three months, such proposals _as they may wish the
Conference to consider.

The Secretary-General shall circulate to all Contracting

Parties the provisional agenda for the Conference, together with the texts of such
proposals, at least three months before the date on which the Conference is to
meet.



The Secretary-General shall invite to any conference convened in accordance

with this article all the States referred to in article 3, paragraphs 1 and 2, and
also the States which have become Contracting Parties under article 3, paragraph 3
of this Protocol.
Article 15

In addition to the notification provided for in article 12» the
Secretary-General of the United Nations shall notify the States referred to in
article 3, paragraphs 1 and 2, and the States which have become Contracting Parties
under article 3, paragraph 3 of this Protocol, of:
(a) ratifications and accessions under article 3;
(b) the dates of entry into force of this Protocol in accordance with
article 4»
(c) communications received under article 2, paragraph 3»
(d) denunciations under article 5;
(e) the termination of this Protocol under article 6$
(f) notices received under article 7;
(g) notification received in accordance with articles 9 and 10.
Article 14
After 31 August 1979» the original of this Protocol shall be deposited with
the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall transmit certified true
copies to each of the States mentioned in article 3, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of
this Protocol.

DONE at Gene va y this fifth day of July one thousand nine hundred and
seventy-eight, in a single copy in the English, French and Russian languages,
the three texts being equally authentic.
