CONVENTION FOR THE UNIFICATION OF CERTAIN RULES RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE BY AIR, SIGNED 
AT WARSAW ON 12 OCTOBER 1929
( WARSAW CONVENTION)

CHAPTER I SCOPE - DEFINITIONS
Article 1

1. This Convention applies to all international carriage of persons, luggage or goods performed by 
aircraft for reward. It applies equally to gratuitous carriage by aircraft performed by an air 
transport undertaking.
2. For the purposes of this Convention the expression "international carriage" means any carriage 
in which, according to the contract made by the parties, the place of departure and the place of 
destination, whether or not there be a break in the carriage or a transhipment, are situated either 
within the territories of two High Contracting Parties, or within the territory of a single High 
Contracting Party, if there is an agreed stopping place within a territory subject to the 
sovereignty, suzerainty, mandate or authority of another Power, even though that Power is not a 
party to this Convention. A carriage without such an agreed stopping place between territories 
subject to the sovereignty, suzerainty, mandate or authority of the same High Contracting Party is 
not deemed to be international for the purposes of this Convention.
3. A carriage to be performed by several successive air carriers is deemed, for the purposes of 
this Convention, to be one undivided carriage, if it has been regarded by the parties as a single 
operation, whether it had been agreed upon under the form of a single contract or of a series of 
contracts, and it does not lose its international character merely because one contract or a series 
of contracts is to be performed entirely within a territory subject to the sovereignty, suzerainty, 
mandate or authority of the same High Contracting Party.


Article 2

1. This Convention applies to carriage performed by the State or

by legally constituted public bodies provided it falls within the conditions laid down in Article 
1.
2. This Convention does not apply to carriage performed under the terms of any international postal 
Convention.


CHAPTER II DOCUMENTS OF CARRIAGE
Section I - Passenger Ticket Article 3
1. For the carriage of passengers the carrier must deliver a passenger ticket which shall contain 
the following particulars:-
(a) the place and date of issue;
(b) the place of departure and of destination;
(c) the agreed stopping places, provided that the carrier
may reserve the right to alter the stopping places in case of necess-

ity, and that if he exercises that right, the alteration shall not have the effect of depriving the 
carriage of its international character;
(d) the name and address of the carrier or carriers;
(e) a statement that the carriage is subject to the rules relating to liability established by this 
Convention.
2. The absence, irregularity or loss of the passenger ticket does not affect the existence or the 
validity of the contract of carriage, which shall none the less be subject to the rules of this 
Convention. Nevertheless, if the carrier accepts a passenger without a passenger ticket having been 
delivered he shall not be entitled to avail himself of those provisions of this Convention which 
exclude or limit his liability.

Section II - Luggage Ticket Article 4
1. For the carriage of luggage, other than small personal objects of which the passenger takes 
charge himself, the carrier must deliver a luggage ticket.

2. The luggage ticket shall be made out in duplicate, one part for the passenger and the other part 
for the carrier.
3. The luggage ticket shall contain the following particulars:-
(a) the place and date of issue;
(b) the place of departure and of destination;
(c) the name and address of the carrier or carriers;
(d) the number of the passenger ticket;
(e) a statement that delivery of the luggage will be made to the bearer of the luggage ticket;
(f) the number and weight of the packages;
(g) the amount of the value declared in accordance with Article 22(2);
(h) a statement that the carriage is subject to the rules relating to liability established by this 
Convention.
4. The absence, irregularity or loss of the luggage ticket does not affect the existence or the 
validity of the contract of carriage, which shall
none the less be subject to the rules of this Convention. Nevertheless, if the carrier accepts 
luggage without a luggage ticket having been delivered, or
if the luggage ticket does not contain the particulars set out at (d), (f) and (h) above, the 
carrier shall not be entitled to avail himself of those provisions
of the Convention which exclude or limit his liability.



Section III - Air Consignment Note Article 5
1. Every carrier of goods has the right to require the consignor to make out and hand over to him a 
document called an "air consignment note"; every consignor has the right to require the carrier to 
accept this document.
2. The absence, irregularity or loss of this document does not affect
the existence or the validity of the contract of carriage which shall, subject to the provisions of 
Article 9, be none the less governed by the rules of this Convention.


Article 6

1. The air consignment note shall be made out by the consignor in three original parts and be 
handed over with the goods.
2. The first part shall be marked "for the carrier," and shall be signed by the consignor. The 
second part shall be marked "for the
consignee"; it shall be signed by the consignor and by the carrier and shall accompany the goods. 
The third part shall be signed by the carrier and handed by him to the consignor after the goods 
have been accepted.
3. The carrier shall sign on acceptance of the goods.
4. The signature of the carrier may be stamped; that of the consignor may be printed or stamped.
5. If, at the request of the consignor, the carrier makes out the air consignment note, he shall be 
deemed, subject to proof to the contrary, to have done so on behalf of the consignor.



Article 7

The carrier of goods has the right to require the consignor to make out separate consignment notes 
when there is more than one package.


Article 8

The air consignment note shall contain the following particulars:-
(a) the place and date of its execution;
(b) the place of departure and of destination;
(c) the agreed stopping places, provided that the carrier
may reserve the right to alter the stopping places in case of necess-

ity, and that if he exercises that right the alteration shall not have the effect of depriving the 
carriage of its international character;
(d) the name and address of the consignor;
(e) the name and address of the first carrier;
(f) the name and address of the consignee, if the case so requires;
(g) the nature of the goods;
(h) the number of the packages, the method of packing and the particular marks or numbers upon 
them;
(i) the weight, the quantity and the volume or dimensions

of the goods;
(j) the apparent condition of the goods and of the packing;
(k) the freight, if it has been agreed upon, the date and place of payment, and the person who is 
to pay it;
(1) if the goods are sent for payment on delivery, the price of the goods, and, if the case so 
requires, the amount of the expenses incurred;
(m) the amount of the value declared in accordance with Article 22 (2);
(n) the number of parts of the air consignment note;
(o) the documents handed to the carrier to accompany the air consignment note;
(p) the time fixed for the completion of the carriage and a brief note of the route to be followed, 
if these matters have been agreed upon;
(q) a statement that the carriage is subject to the rules relating to liability established by this 
Convention.




Article 9

If the carrier accepts goods without an air consignment note having been made out, or if the air 
consignment note does not contain all the
particulars set out in Article 8(a) to (i) inclusive and (q), the carrier shall not be entitled to 
avail himself of the provisions of this Convention which exclude or limit his liability.


Article 10

1. The consignor is responsible for the correctness of the particulars
and statements relating to the goods which he inserts in the air consignment note.
2. The consignor will be liable for all damage suffered by the
carrier or any other person by reason of the irregularity, incorrectness or incompleteness of the 
said particulars and statements.

Article 11

1. The air consignment note is prima facie evidence of the
conclusion of the contract, of the receipt of the goods and of the conditions of carriage.
2. The statements in the air consignment note relating to the weight, dimensions and packing of the 
goods, as well as those relating to the number of packages, are prima facie evidence of the facts 
stated; those relating to the quantity, volume and condition of the goods do not constitute 
evidence against the carrier except so far as they both have been, and are stated in the air 
consignment note to have been, checked by him in the presence of the consignor, or relate to the 
apparent condition of the goods.


Article 12

1. Subject to his liability to carry out all his obligations under the contract of carriage, the 
consignor has the right to dispose of the goods by withdrawing them at the aerodrome of departure 
or destination, or by stopping them in the course of the journey on any landing, or by calling for 
them to be delivered at the place of destination or in the course of the journey to a person other 
than the consignee named in the air consignment note, or by requiring them to be returned to the 
aerodrome of departure.
He must not exercise this right of disposition in such a way as to prejudice the carrier or other 
consignors and he must repay any expenses occasioned by the exercise of this right.
2. If it is impossible to carry out the orders of the consignor the carrier must so inform him 
forthwith.
3. If the carrier obeys the orders of the consignor for the disposition of the goods without 
requiring the production of the part of the air
consignment note delivered to the latter, he will be liable, without prejudice to his right of 
recovery from the consignor, for any damage which may be caused thereby to any person who is 
lawfully in possession of that part of the air consignment note.
4. The right conferred on the consignor ceases at the moment when that of the consignee begins in 
accordance with Article 13. Nevertheless,
if the consignee declines to accept the consignment note or the goods, or if he cannot be 
communicated with, the consignor resumes his right of disposi-

tion.

Article 13

1. Except in the circumstances set out in the preceding Article, the consignee is entitled, on 
arrival of the goods at the place of destination, to require the carrier to hand over to him the 
air consignment note and to deliver the goods to him, on payment of the charges due and on 
complying with the conditions of carriage set out in the air consignment note.
2. Unless it is otherwise agreed, it is the duty of the carrier to give notice to the consignee as 
soon as the goods arrive.
3. If the carrier admits the loss of the goods, or if the goods have not arrived at the expiration 
of seven days after the date on which they
ought to have arrived, the consignee is entitled to put into force against the carrier the rights 
which flow from the contract of carriage.

Article 14

The consignor and the consignee can respectively enforce all the
rights given them by Articles 12 and 13, each in his own name, whether he is acting in his own 
interest or in the interest of another, provided that he carries out the obligations imposed by the 
contract.

Article 15

1. Articles 12, 13 and 14 do not affect either the relations of the consignor or the consignee with 
each other or the mutual relations of third parties whose rights are derived either from the 
consignor or from the consignee.
2. The provisions of Articles 12, 13 and 14 can only be varied by express provision in the air 
consignment note.

Article 16

1. The consignor must furnish such information and attach to the air consignment note such 
documents as are necessary to meet the
formalities of customs, octroi or police before the goods can be delivered to the consignee. The 
consignor is liable to the carrier for any damage occasioned by the absence, insufficiency or 
irregularity of any such information or documents, unless the damage is due to the fault of the 
carrier or his agents.
2. The carrier is under no obligation to enquire into the correctness

or sufficiency of such information or documents.


CHAPTER III

LIABILITY OF THE CARRIER

Article 17

The carrier is liable for damage sustained in the event of the death or wounding of a passenger or 
any other bodily injury suffered by a
passenger, if the accident which caused the damage so sustained took place on board the aircraft or 
in the course of any of the operations of embarking or disembarking.

Article 18

1. The carrier is liable for damage sustained in the event of the destruction or loss of, or of 
damage to, any registered luggage or any goods, if the occurrence which caused the damage so 
sustained took place during the carriage by air.
2. The carriage by air within the meaning of the preceding
paragraph comprises the period during which the luggage or goods are in charge of the carrier, 
whether in an aerodrome or on board an aircraft, or, in the case of a landing outside an aerodrome, 
in any place whatsoever.
3. The period of the carriage by air does not extend to any carriage by land, by sea or by river 
performed outside an aerodrome. If, however,
such a carriage takes place in the performance of a contract for carriage by air, for the purpose 
of loading, delivery or transshipment, any damage is presumed, subject to proof to the contrary, to 
have been the result of an event which took place during the carriage by air.


Article 19

The carrier is liable for damage occasioned by delay in the carriage by air of passengers, luggage 
or goods.

Article 20

1. The carrier is not liable if he proves that he and his agents have taken all necessary measures 
to avoid the damage or that it was impossible for him or them to take such measures.
2. In the carriage of goods and luggage the carrier is not liable if he proves that the damage was 
occasioned by negligent pilotage or
negligence in the handling of the aircraft or in navigation and that, in all other respects, he and 
his agents have taken all necessary measures to avoid the damage.


Article 21

If the carrier proves that the damage was caused by or contributed
to by the negligence of the injured person the Court may, in accordance with the provisions of its 
own law, exonerate the carrier wholly or partly from his liability.

Article 22

1. In the carriage of passengers the liability of the carrier for each passenger is limited to the 
sum of 125,000 francs. Where, in accordance with the law of the Court seised of the case, damages 
may be awarded in the form of periodical payments, the equivalent capital value of the said 
payments shall not exceed 125,000 francs. Nevertheless, by special
contract, the carrier and the passenger may agree to a higher limit of liability.
2. In the carriage of registered luggage and of goods, the liability of the carrier is limited to a 
sum of 250 francs per kilogram, unless the
consignor has made, at the time when the package was handed over to the carrier, a special 
declaration of the value at delivery and has paid a supplementary sum if the case so requires. In 
that case the carrier will be liable to pay a sum not exceeding the declared sum, unless he proves 
that that sum is greater than the actual value to the consignor at delivery.
3. As regards objects of which the passenger takes charge himself the liability of the carrier is 
limited to 5,000 francs per passenger.
4. The sums mentioned above shall be deemed to refer to the
French franc consisting of 65 '/2 milligrams gold of millesimal fineness 900. These sums may be 
converted into any national currency in round figures.

Article 23

Any provision tending to relieve the carrier of liability or to fix a
lower limit than that which is laid down in this Convention shall be null and void, but the nullity 
of any such provision does not involve the nullity of the whole contract, which shall remain 
subject to the provisions of this Convention.


Article 24

1. In the cases covered by Articles 18 and 19 any action for
damages, however founded, can only be brought subject to the conditions and limits set out in this 
Convention.
2. In the cases covered by Article 17 the provisions of the
preceding paragraph also apply, without prejudice to the questions as to who are the persons who 
have the right to bring suit and what are their respective rights.


Article 25

1. The carrier shall not be entitled to avail himself of the provisions of this Convention which 
exclude or limit his liability, if the damage is caused by his wilful misconduct or by such default 
on his part as, in
accordance with the law of the Court seised of the case, is considered to be equivalent to wilful 
misconduct.
2. Similarly the carrier shall not be entitled to avail himself of the said provisions, if the 
damage is caused as aforesaid by any agent of the carrier acting within the scope of his 
employment.

Article 26

1. Receipt by the person entitled to delivery of luggage or goods
without complaint is prima facie evidence that the same have been delivered in good condition and 
in accordance with the document of carriage.
2. In the case of damage, the person entitled to delivery must
complain to the carrier forthwith after the discovery of the damage, and, at the latest, within 
three days from the date of receipt in the case of luggage and seven days from the date of receipt 
in the case of goods. In the case of

delay the complaint must be made at the latest within fourteen days from the date on which the 
luggage or goods have been placed at his disposal.
3. Every complaint must be made in writing upon the document of carriage or by separate notice in 
writing despatched within the times aforesaid.
4. Failing complaint within the times aforesaid, no action shall lie against the carrier, save in 
the case of fraud on his part.



Article 27

In the case of the death of the person liable, an action for damages lies in accordance with the 
terms of this Convention against those legally representing his estate.


Article 28

1. An action for damages must be brought, at the option of the plaintiff, in the territory of one 
of the High Contracting Parties, either
before the Court having jurisdiction where the carrier is ordinarily resident, or has his principal 
place of business, or has an establishment by which the contract has been made or before the Court 
having jurisdiction at the place of destination.
2. Questions of procedure shall be governed by the law of the Court seised of the case.


Article 29

1. The right to damages shall be extinguished if an action is not brought within two years, 
reckoned from the date of arrival at the
destination, or from the date on which the aircraft ought to have arrived, or from the date on 
which the carriage stopped.
2. The method of calculating the period of limitation shall be determined by the law of the Court 
seised of the case.

Article 30

1. In the case of carriage to be performed by various successive carriers and falling within the 
definition set out in the third paragraph of Article 1, each carrier who accepts passengers, 
luggage or goods is
subjected to the rules set out in this Convention, and is deemed to be one of the contracting 
parties to the contract of carriage in so far as the contract deals with that part of the carriage 
which is performed under his supervision.
2. In the case of carriage of this nature, the passenger or his representative can take action only 
against the carrier who performed the carriage during which the accident or the delay occurred, 
save in the case where, by express agreement, the first carrier has assumed liability for the whole 
journey.
3. As regards luggage or goods, the passenger or consignor will have a right of action against the 
first carrier, and the passenger or
consignee who is entitled to delivery will have a right of action against the last carrier, and 
further, each may take action against the carrier who performed the carriage during which the 
destruction, loss, damage or delay took place. These carriers will be jointly and severally liable 
to the passenger or to the consignor or consignee.

CHAPTER IV

PROVISIONS RELATING TO COMBINED CARRIAGE

Article 31

1. In the case of combined carriage performed partly by air and partly by any other mode of 
carriage, the provisions of this Convention apply only to the carriage by air, provided that the 
carriage by air falls within the terms of Article 1.
2. Nothing in this Convention shall prevent the parties in the case of combined carriage from 
inserting in the document of air carriage
conditions relating to other modes of carriage, provided that the provisions of this Convention are 
observed as regards the carriage by air.


CHAPTER V

GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Article 32

Any clause contained in the contract and all special agreements entered into before the damage 
occurred by which the parties purport to infringe the rules laid down by this Convention, whether 
by deciding the
law to be applied, or by altering the rules as to jurisdiction, shall be null and void. 
Nevertheless for the carriage of goods arbitration clauses are allowed, subject to this Convention, 
if the arbitration is to take place within one of the jurisdictions referred to in the first 
paragraph of Article 28.

Article 33

Nothing contained in this Convention shall prevent the carrier either from refusing to enter into 
any contract of carriage, or from making regulations which do not conflict with the provisions of 
this Convention.

Article 34

This Convention does not apply to international carriage by air performed by way of experimental 
trial by air navigation undertakings with the view to the establishment of a regular line of air 
navigation, nor does it apply to carriage performed in extraordinary circumstances outside the 
normal scope of an air carrier's business.


Article 35

The expression "days" when used in this Convention means current days not working days.

Article 36

The Convention is drawn up in French in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the archives 
of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Poland and of which one duly certified copy shall be sent by 
the Polish Government to the Government of each of the High Contracting Parties.


Article 37

1. This Convention shall be ratified. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the 
archives of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of
Poland, which will notify the deposit to the Government of each of the High Contracting Parties.
2. As soon as this Convention shall have been ratified by five of the High Contracting Parties it 
shall come into force as between them on the ninetieth day after the deposit of the fifth 
ratification. Thereafter it shall come into force between the High Contracting Parties who shall 
have ratified and the High Contracting Party who deposits his instrument of ratification on the 
ninetieth day after the deposit.
3. It shall be the duty of the Government of the Republic of Poland
to notify to the Government of each of the High Contracting Parties the date on which this 
Convention comes into force as well as the date of the deposit of each ratification.

Article 38

1. This Convention shall, after it has come into force, remain open for accession by any State.
2. The accession shall be effected by a notification addressed to the Government of the Republic of 
Poland, which will inform the Government of each of the High Contracting Parties thereof.
3. The accession shall take effect as from the ninetieth day after the notification made to the 
Government of the Republic of Poland.

Article 39

1. Any one of the High Contracting Parties may denounce this Convention by a notification addressed 
to the Government of the Republic of Poland, which will at once inform the Government of each of 
the High Contracting Parties.
2. Denunciation shall take effect six months after the notification
of denunciation, and shall operate only as regards the Party who shall have proceeded to 
denunciation.

Article 40

1. Any High Contracting Party may, at the time of signature or of deposit of ratification or of 
accession declare that the acceptance which he gives to this Convention does not apply to all or 
any of his colonies,

protectorates, territories under mandate, or any other territory subject to his sovereignty or his 
authority, or any territory under his suzerainty.
2. Accordingly any High Contracting Party may subsequently
accede separately in the name of all or any of his colonies, protectorates, territories under 
mandate or any other territory subject to his sovereignty or to his authority or any territory 
under his suzerainty which has been thus excluded by his original declaration.
3. Any High Contracting Party may denounce this Convention, in accordance with its provisions, 
separately or for all or any of his colonies, protectorates, territories under mandate or any other 
territory subject to his sovereignty or to his authority, or any other territory under his 
suzerainty.

Article 41

Any High Contracting Party shall be entitled not earlier than two years after the coming into force 
of this Convention to call for the assembling of a new international Conference in order to 
consider any
improvements which may be made in this Convention. To this end he will communicate with the 
Government of the French Republic which will take the necessary measures to make preparations for 
such Conference.
This Convention done at Warsaw on the 12th October, 1929, shall remain open for signature until the 
31st January, 1930.




"ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL

(With reference to Article 2)

The High Contracting Parties reserve to themselves the right to
declare at the time of ratification or of accession that the first paragraph of Article 2 of this 
Convention shall not apply to international carriage by air performed directly by the State, its 
colonies, protectorates or mandated territories or by any other territory under its sovereignty, 
suzerainty or authority."
