
Paris Act relating to the Berne Convention for the Protec
tion of Literary and Artistic Works of September 9,
1886, completed at Paris on May 4, 1896, revised at
Berlin on November 13, 1908, completed at Berne
on March 20, 1914, revised at Rome on June 2, 1928,
revised at Brussels on June 26, 1948, and revised at
Stockholm on July 14, 1967 (with appendix). Con
cluded at Paris on 24 July 1971
Authentic texts: French and English.
Registered by the Director General of the World Intellectual Property
Organization, acting on behalf of the Parties, on 28 February 1980.


BERNE CONVENTION FOR THE PROTECTION OF LITERARY AND
ARTISTIC WORKS OF SEPTEMBER 9, 1886,' COMPLETED
AT PARIS ON MAY 4, 1896, 2 REVISED AT BERLIN ON
NOVEMBER 13, 1908, 3 COMPLETED AT BERNE ON MARCH 20,
1914, 4 AND REVISED AT ROME ON JUNE 2, 1928, 5 AT BRUSSELS
ON JUNE 26, 1948, 6 AT STOCKHOLM ON JULY 14, 1967, 7 AND AT
PARIS ON JULY 24, 1971 s

The countries of the Union, being equally animated by the desire to protect, in
as effective and uniform a manner as possible, the rights of authors in their literary
and artistic works,
Recognizing the importance of the work of the Revision Conference held at
Stockholm in 1967,
Have resolved to revise the Act adopted by the Stockholm Conference, while
maintaining without change Articles 1 to 20 and 22 to 26 of that Act.
Consequently, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, having presented their full
powers, recognized as in good and due form, have agreed as follows:
Article 1. The countries to which this Convention applies constitute a Union
for the protection of the rights of authors in their literary and artistic works.
Article 2. (1) The expression "literary and artistic works" shall include every
production in the literary, scientific and artistic domain, whatever may be the mode
or form of its expression, such as books, pamphlets and other writings; lectures, ad
dresses, sermons and other works of the same nature; dramatic or dramatico-musical
works; choreographic works and entertainments in dumb show; musical composi
tions with or without words; cinematographic works to which are assimilated works
expressed by a process analogous to cinematography; works of drawing, painting,
architecture, sculpture, engraving and lithography; photographic works to which are
assimilated works expressed by a process analogous to photography; works of applied art; illustrations, maps, plans, sketches and three-dimensional works relative to
geography, topography, architecture or science.
(2) It shall, however, be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union
to prescribe that works in general or any specified categories of works shall not be
protected unless they have been fixed in some material form.
(3) Translations, adaptations, arrangements of music and other alterations of
a literary or artistic work shall be protected as original works without prejudice to the
copyright in the original work.
(4) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to deter
mine the protection to be granted to official texts of a legislative, administrative and
legal nature, and to official translations of such texts.
(5) Collections of literary or artistic works such as encyclopaedias and anthol
ogies which, by reason of the selection and arrangement of their contents, constitute
intellectual creations shall be protected as such, without prejudice to the copyright in
each of the works forming part of such collections.
(6) The works mentioned in this Article shall enjoy protection in all countries
of the Union. This protection shall operate for the benefit of the author and his suc
cessors in title.
(7) Subject to the provisions of Article 7(4) of this Convention, it shall be a
matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to determine the extent of the ap
plication of their laws to works of applied art and industrial designs and models, as
well as the conditions under which such works, designs and models shall be pro
tected. Works protected in the country of origin solely as designs and models shall be
entitled in another country of the Union only to such special protection as is granted
in that country to designs and models; however, if no such special protection is
granted in that country, such works shall be protected as artistic works.
(8) The protection of this Convention shall not apply to news of the day or to
miscellaneous facts having the character of mere items of press information.
Article 2 bis. (1) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the
Union to exclude, wholly or in part, from the protection provided by the preceding
Article political speeches and speeches delivered in the course of legal proceedings.
(2) It shall also be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to
determine the conditions under which lectures, addresses and other works of the
same nature which are delivered in public may be reproduced by the press, broadcast,
communicated to the public by wire and made the subject of public communication
as envisaged in Article HWs(l) of this Convention, when such use is justified by the
informatory purpose.
(3) Nevertheless, the author shall enjoy the exclusive right of making a collec
tion of his works mentioned in the preceding paragraphs.
Article 3. (1) The protection of this Convention shall apply to:
(a) Authors who are nationals of one of the countries of the Union, for their works,
whether published or not;
(b) Authors who are not nationals of one of the countries of the Union, for their
works first published in one of those countries, or simultaneously in a country
outside the Union and in a country of the Union.
(2) Authors who are not nationals of one of the countries of the Union but
who have their habitual residence in one of them shall, for the purposes of this Con
vention, be assimilated to nationals of that country.
(3) The expression "published works" means works published with the consent
of their authors, whatever may be the means of manufacture of the copies, provided
that the availability of such copies has been such as to satisfy the reasonable re
quirements of the public, having regard to the nature of the work. The performance
of a dramatic, dramatico-musical, cinematographic or musical work, the public
recitation of a literary work, the communication by wire or the broadcasting of
literary or artistic works, the exhibition of a work of art and the construction of a
work of architecture shall not constitute publication.
(4) A work shall be considered as having been published simultaneously in
several countries if it has been published in two or more countries within thirty days
of its first publication.
Article 4. The protection of this Convention shall apply, even if the condi
tions of Article 3 are not fulfilled, to:
(a) Authors of cinematographic works the maker of which has his headquarters or
habitual residence in one of the countries of the Union;
(b) Authors of works of architecture erected in a country of the Union or of other
artistic works incorporated in a building or other structure located in a country
of the Union.
Article 5. (1) Authors shall enjoy, in respect of works for which they are pro
tected under this Convention, in countries of the Union other than the country of
origin, the rights which their respective laws do now or may hereafter grant to their
nationals, as well as the rights specially granted by this Convention.
(2) The enjoyment and the exercise of these rights shall not be subject to any
formality; such enjoyment and such exercise shall be independent of the existence of
protection in the country of origin of the work. Consequently, apart from the provi
sions of this Convention, the extent of protection, as well as the means of redress
afforded to the author to protect his rights, shall be governed exclusively by the laws
of the country where protection is claimed.
(3) Protection in the country of origin is governed by domestic law. However,
when the author is not a national of the country of origin of the work for which he is
protected under this Convention, he shall enjoy in that country the same rights as na
tional authors.
(4) The country of origin shall be considered to be:
(a) In the case of works first published in a country of the Union, that country; in the
case of works published simultaneously in several countries of the Union which
grant different terms of protection, the country whose legislation grants the
shortest term of protection;
(b) In the case of works published simultaneously in a country outside the Union
and in a country of the Union, the latter country;
(c) In the case of unpublished works or of works first published in a country outside
the Union, without simultaneous publication in a country of the Union, the
country of the Union of which the author is a national, provided that:
(i) When these are cinematographic works the maker of which has his head
quarters or his habitual residence in a country of the Union, the country of
origin shall be that country, and
(ii) When these are works of architecture erected in a country of the Union or
other artistic works incorporated in a building or other structure located in a
country of the Union, the country of origin shall be that country.
Article 6. (1) Where any country outside the Union fails to protect in an ade
quate manner the works of authors who are nationals of one of the countries of the
Union, the latter country may restrict the protection given to the works of authors
who are, at the date of the first publication thereof, nationals of the other country
and are not habitually resident in one of the countries of the Union. If the country of
first publication avails itself of this right, the other countries of the Union shall not be
required to grant to works thus subjected to special treatment a wider protection than
that granted to them in the country of first publication.
(2) No restrictions introduced by virtue of the preceding paragraph shall affect
the rights which an author may have acquired in respect of a work published in a
country of the Union before such restrictions were put into force.
(3) The countries of the Union which restrict the grant of copyright in accord
ance with this Article shall give notice thereof to the Director General of the World
Intellectual Property Organization (hereinafter designated as "the Director General")
by a written declaration specifying the countries in regard to which protection is
restricted, and the restrictions to which rights of authors who are nationals of those
countries are subjected. The Director General shall immediately communicate this
declaration to all the countries of the Union.
Article 6 bis. (1) Independently of the author's economic rights, and even
after the transfer of the said rights, the author shall have the right to claim author
ship of the work and to object to any distortion, mutilation or other modification of,
or other derogatory action in relation to, the said work, which would be prejudicial
to his honor or reputation.
(2) The rights granted to the author in accordance with the preceding para
graph shall, after his death, be maintained, at least until the expiry of the economic
rights, and shall be exercisable by the persons or institutions authorized by the
legislation of the country where protection is claimed. However, those countries
whose legislation, at the moment of their ratification of or accession to this Act, does
not provide for the protection after the death of the author of all the rights set out in
the preceding paragraph may provide that some of these rights may, after his death,
cease to be maintained.
(3) The means of redress for safeguarding the rights granted by this Article
shall be governed by the legislation of the country where protection is claimed.
Article 7. (1) The term of protection granted by this Convention shall be the
life of the author and fifty years after his death.
Vol. 1161,1-18338

1980

United Nations — Treaty Series • Nations Unies — Recueil des Traités______37

(2) However, in the case of cinematographic works, the countries of the Union
may provide that the term of protection shall expire fifty years after the work has
been made available to the public with the consent of the author, or, failing such an
event within fifty years from the making of such a work, fifty years after the making.
(3) In the case of anonymous or pseudonymous works, the term of protection
granted by this Convention shall expire fifty years after the work has been lawfully
made available to the public. However, when the pseudonym adopted by the author
leaves no doubt as to his identity, the term of protection shall be that provided in
paragraph (1). If the author of an anonymous or pseudonymous work discloses his
identity during the above-mentioned period, the term of protection applicable shall
be that provided in paragraph (1). The countries of the Union shall not be required to
protect anonymous or pseudonymous works in respect of which it is reasonable to
presume that their author has been dead for fifty years.
(4) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to deter
mine the term of protection of photographic works and that of works of applied art
in so far as they are protected as artistic works; however, this term shall last at least
until the end of a period of twenty-five years from the making of such a work.
(5) The term of protection subsequent to the death of the author and the terms
provided by paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) shall run from the date of death or of the
event referred to in those paragraphs, but such terms shall always be deemed to begin
on the first of January of the year following the death or such event.
(6) The countries of the Union may grant a term of protection in excess of
those provided by the preceding paragraphs.
(7) Those countries of the Union bound by the Rome Act of this Convention
which grant, in their national legislation in force at the time of signature of the pres
ent Act, shorter terms of protection than those provided for in the preceding
paragraphs shall have the right to maintain such terms when ratifying or acceding to
the present Act.
(8) In any case, the term shall be governed by the legislation of the country
where protection is claimed; however, unless the legislation of that country otherwise
provides, the term shall not exceed the term fixed in the country of origin of the
work.
Article 7 bis. The provisions of the preceding Article shall also apply in the
case of a work of joint authorship, provided that the terms measured from the death
of the author shall be calculated from the death of the last surviving author.
Article 8. Authors of literary and artistic works protected by this Convention
shall enjoy the exclusive right of making and of authorizing the translation of their
works throughout the term of protection of their rights in the original works.
Article 9. (1) Authors of literary and artistic works protected by this Conven
tion shall have the exclusive right of authorizing the reproduction of these works, in
any manner or form.
(2) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to permit
the reproduction of such works in certain special cases, provided that such reproduc
tion does not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work and does not
unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the author.
(3) Any sound or visual recording shall be considered as a reproduction for the
purposes of this Convention.
Article 10. (1) It shall be permissible to make quotations from a work which
has already been lawfully made available to the public, provided that their making is
compatible with fair practice, and their extent does not exceed that justified by the
purpose, including quotations from newspaper articles and periodicals in the form of
press summaries.
(2) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union, and for
special agreements existing or to be concluded between them, to permit the utiliza
tion, to the extent justified by the purpose, of literary or artistic works by way of
illustration in publications, broadcasts or sound or visual recordings for teaching,
provided such utilization is compatible with fair practice.
(3) Where use is made of works in accordance with the preceding paragraphs
of this Article, mention shall be made of the source, and of the name of the author if
it appears thereon.
Article 10 bis. (1) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the
Union to permit the reproduction by the press, the broadcasting or the communica
tion to the public by wire of articles published in newspapers or periodicals on cur
rent economic, political or religious topics, and of broadcast works of the same
character, in cases in which the reproduction, broadcasting or such communication
thereof is not expressly reserved. Nevertheless, the source must always be clearly in
dicated; the legal consequences of a breach of this obligation shall be determined by
the legislation of the country where protection is claimed.
(2) It shall also be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to
determine the conditions under which, for the purpose of reporting current events by
means of photography, cinematography, broadcasting or communication to the
public by wire, literary or artistic works seen or heard in the course of the event may,
to the extent justified by the informatory purpose, be reproduced and made available
to the public.
Article 11. (1) Authors of dramatic, dramatico-musical and musical works
shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorizing:
(i) The public performance of their works, including such public performance by
any means or process;
(ii) Any communication to the public of the performance of their works.
(2) Authors of dramatic or dramatico-musical works shall enjoy, during the
full term of their rights in the original works, the same rights with respect to transla
tions thereof.
Article 11 bis. (1) Authors of literary and artistic works shall enjoy the exclu
sive right of authorizing:
(i) The broadcasting of their works or the communication thereof to the public by
any other means of wireless diffusion of signs, sounds or images;
(ii) Any communication to the public by wire or by rebroadcasting of the broadcast
of the work, when this communication is made by an organization other than
the original one;
(iii) The public communication by loudspeaker or any other analogous instrument
transmitting, by signs, sounds or images, the broadcast of the work.
(2) It shall be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to deter
mine the conditions under which the rights mentioned in the preceding paragraph
may be exercised, but these conditions shall apply only in the countries where they
have been prescribed. They shall not in any circumstances be prejudicial to the moral
rights of the author, nor to his right to obtain equitable remuneration which, in the
absence of agreement, shall be fixed by competent authority.
(3) In the absence of any contrary stipulation, permission granted in accord
ance with paragraph (1) of this Article shall not imply permission to record, by
means of instruments recording sounds or images, the work broadcast. It shall,
however, be a matter for legislation in the countries of the Union to determine the
regulations for ephemeral recordings made by a broadcasting organization by means
of its own facilities and used for its own broadcasts. The preservation of these re
cordings in official archives may, on the ground of their exceptional documentary
character, be authorized by such legislation.
Article 11 ter. (1) Authors of literary works shall enjoy the exclusive right of
authorizing:
(i) The public recitation of their works, including such public recitation by any
means or process;
(ii) Any communication to the public of the recitation of their works.
(2) Authors of literary works shall enjoy, during the full term of their rights in
the original works, the same rights with respect to translations thereof.
Article 12. Authors of literary or artistic works shall enjoy the exclusive right
of authorizing adaptations, arrangements and other alterations of their works.
Article 13. (1) Each country of the Union may impose for itself reservations
and conditions on the exclusive right granted to the author of a musical work and to
the author of any words, the recording of which together with the musical work has
already been authorized by the latter, to authorize the sound recording of that
musical work, together with such words, if any; but all such reservations and condi
tions shall apply only in the countries which have imposed them and shall not, in any
circumstances, be prejudicial to the rights of these authors to obtain equitable
remuneration which, in the absence of agreement, shall be fixed by competent
authority.
(2) Recordings of musical works made in a country of the Union in accordance
with Article 13(3) of the Conventions signed at Rome on June 2, 1928, and at
Brussels on June 26,1948, may be reproduced in that country without the permission
of the author of the musical work until a date two years after that country becomes
bound by this Act.
(3) Recordings made in accordance with paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Article
and imported without permission from the parties concerned into a country where
they are treated as infringing recordings shall be liable to seizure.
Article 14. (1) Authors of literary or artistic works shall have the exclusive
right of authorizing:
(i) The cinematographic adaptation and reproduction of these works, and the
distribution of the works thus adapted or reproduced;
(ii) The public performance and communication to the public by wire of the works
thus adapted or reproduced.
(2) The adaptation into any other artistic form of a cinematographic produc
tion derived from literary or artistic works shall, without prejudice to the authorizaVol. 1161,1-18338
tion of the author of the cinematographic production, remain subject to the
authorization of the authors of the original works.
(3) The provisions of Article 13(1) shall not apply.
Article 14 bis. (1) Without prejudice to the copyright in any work which may
have been adapted or reproduced, a cinematographic work shall be protected as an
original work. The owner of copyright in a cinematographic work shall enjoy the
same rights as the author of an original work, including the rights referred to in the
preceding Article.
(2) (a) Ownership of copyright in a cinematographic work shall be a matter
for legislation in the country where protection is claimed.
(b) However, in the countries of the Union which, by legislation, include
among the owners of copyright in a cinematographic work authors who have
brought contributions to the making of the work, such authors, if they have under
taken to bring such contributions, may not, in the absence of any contrary or special
stipulation, object to the reproduction, distribution, public performance, com
munication to the public by wire, broadcasting or any other communication to the
public, or to the subtitling or dubbing of texts, of the work.
(c) The question whether or not the form of the undertaking referred to above
should, for the application of the preceding subparagraph (b), be in a written agree
ment or a written act of the same effect shall be a matter for the legislation of the
country where the maker of the cinematographic work has his headquarters or
habitual residence. However, it shall be a matter for the legislation of the country of
the Union where protection is claimed to provide that the said undertaking shall be in
a written agreement or a written act of the same effect. The countries whose legisla
tion so provides shall notify the Director General by means of a written declaration,
which will be immediately communicated by him to all the other countries of the
Union.
(d) By "contrary or special stipulation" is meant any restrictive condition
which is relevant to the aforesaid undertaking.
(3) Unless the national legislation provides to the contrary, the provisions of
paragraph (2)(b) above shall not be applicable to authors of scenarios, dialogues and
musical works created for the making of the cinematographic work, or to the prin
cipal director thereof. However, those countries of the Union whose legislation does
not contain rules providing for the application of the said paragraph (2)(6) to such
director shall notify the Director General by means of a written declaration, which
will be immediately communicated by him to all the other countries of the Union.
Article 14 ter. (1) The author, or after his death the persons or institutions
authorized by national legislation, shall, with respect to original works of art and
original manuscripts of writers and composers, enjoy the inalienable right to an in
terest in any sale of the work subsequent to the first transfer by the author of the
work.
(2) The protection provided by the preceding paragraph may be claimed in a
country of the Union only if legislation in the country to which the author belongs so
permits, and to the extent permitted by the country where this protection is claimed.
(3) The procedure for collection and the amounts shall be matters for deter
mination by national legislation.
Article 15. (1) In order that the author of a literary or artistic work protected
by this Convention shall, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be regarded as
such, and consequently be entitled to institute infringement proceedings in the coun
tries of the Union, it shall be sufficient for his name to appear on the work in the
usual manner. This paragraph shall be applicable even if this name is a pseudonym,
where the pseudonym adopted by the author leaves no doubt as to his identity.
(2) The person or body corporate whose name appears on a cinematographic
work in the usual manner shall, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be presumed
to be the maker of the said work.
(3) In the case of anonymous and pseudonymous works, other than those
referred to in paragraph (1) above, the publisher whose name appears on the work
shall, in the absence of proof to the contrary, be deemed to represent the author, and
in this capacity he shall be entitled to protect and enforce the author's rights. The
provisions of this paragraph shall cease to apply when the author reveals his identity
and establishes his claim to authorship of the work.
(4) (a) In the case of unpublished works where the identity of the author is
unknown, but where there is every ground to presume that he is a national of a coun
try of the Union, it shall be a matter for legislation in that country to designate the
competent authority which shall represent the author and shall be entitled to protect
and enforce his rights in the countries of the Union.
(b) Countries of the Union which make such designation under the terms of
this provision shall notify the Director General by means of a written declaration giv
ing full information concerning the authority thus designated. The Director General
shall at once communicate this declaration to all other countries of the Union.
Article 16. (1) Infringing copies of a work shall be liable to seizure in any
country of the Union where the work enjoys legal protection.
(2) The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall also apply to reproduc
tions coming from a country where the work is not protected, or has ceased to be pro
tected.
(3) The seizure shall take place in accordance with the legislation of each coun
try.
Article 17. The provisions of this Convention cannot in any way affect the
right of the Government of each country of the Union to permit, to control, or to
prohibit, by legislation or regulation, the circulation, presentation, or exhibition of
any work or production in regard to which the competent authority may find it
necessary to exercise that right.
Article 18. (1) This Convention shall apply to all works which, at the moment
of its coming into force, have not yet fallen into the public domain in the country of
origin through the expiry of the term of protection.
(2) If, however, through the expiry of the term of protection which was
previously granted, a work has fallen into the public domain of the country where
protection is claimed, that work shall not be protected anew.
(3) The application of this principle shall be subject to any provisions con
tained in special conventions to that effect existing or to be concluded between coun
tries of the Union. In the absence of such provisions, the respective countries shall
determine, each in so far as it is concerned, the conditions of application of this prin
ciple.
(4) The preceding provisions shall also apply in the case of new accessions to
the Union and to cases in which protection is extended by the application of Article 7
or by the abandonment of reservations.
Article 19. The provisions of this Convention shall not preclude the making
of a claim to the benefit of any greater protection which may be granted by legislation
in a country of the Union.
Article 20. The Governments of the countries of the Union reserve the right to
enter into special agreements among themselves, in so far as such agreements grant to
authors more extensive rights than those granted by the Convention, or contain other
provisions not contrary to this Convention. The provisions of existing agreements
which satisfy these conditions shall remain applicable.
Article 21. (1) Special provisions regarding developing countries are included
in the Appendix.
(2) Subject to the provisions of Article 28(1)(6), the Appendix forms an inte
gral part of this Act.
Article 22. (1) (a) The Union shall have an Assembly consisting of those
countries of the Union which are bound by Articles 22 to 26.
(6) The Government of each country shall be represented by one delegate, who
may be assisted by alternate delegates, advisors, and experts.
(c) The expenses of each delegation shall be borne by the Government which
has appointed it.
(2) (a) The Assembly shall:
(i) Deal with all matters concerning the maintenance and development of the
Union and the implementation of this Convention;
(ii) Give directions concerning the preparation for conferences of revision to the
International Bureau of Intellectual Property (hereinafter designated as "the
International Bureau") referred to in the Convention Establishing the World
Intellectual Property Organization1 (hereinafter designated as "the Organiza
tion"), due account being taken of any comments made by those countries of
the Union which are not bound by Articles 22 to 26;
(iii) Review and approve the reports and activities of the Director General of the
Organization concerning the Union, and give him all necessary instructions
concerning matters within the competence of the Union;
(iv) Elect the members of the Executive Committee of the Assembly;
(v) Review and approve the reports and activities of its Executive Committee, and
give instructions to such Committee;
(vi) Determine the program and adopt the triennial budget of the Union, and ap
prove its final accounts;
(vii) Adopt the financial regulations of the Union;
(viii) Establish such committees of experts and working groups as may be necessary
for the work of the Union;
(ix) Determine which countries not members of the Union and which intergovern
mental and international nongovernmental organizations shall be admitted to
its meetings as observers;
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 828, p. 3.
(x) Adopt amendments to Articles 22 to 26;
(xi) Take any other appropriate action designed to further the objectives of the
Union;
(xii) Exercise such other functions as are appropriate under this Convention;
(xiii) Subject to its acceptance, exercise such rights as are given to it in the Conven
tion establishing the Organization.
(b) With respect to matters which are of interest also to other Unions ad
ministered by the Organization, the Assembly shall make its decisions after having
heard the advice of the Coordination Committee of the Organization.
(3) (a) Each country member of the Assembly shall have one vote.
(b) One-half of the countries members of the Assembly shall constitute a
quorum.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (b), if, in any session, the
number of countries represented is less than one-half but equal to or more than onethird of the countries members of the Assembly, the Assembly may make decisions
but, with the exception of decisions concerning its own procedure, all such decisions
shall take effect only if the following conditions are fulfilled. The International
Bureau shall communicate the said decisions to the countries members of the
Assembly which were not represented and shall invite them to express in writing their
vote or abstention within a period of three months from the date of the communica
tion. If, at the expiration of this period, the number of countries having thus expressed
their vote or abstention attains the number of countries which was lacking for attain
ing the quorum in the session itself, such decisions shall take effect provided that at
the same time the required majority still obtains.
(d) Subject to the provisions of Article 26(2), the decisions of the Assembly
shall require two-thirds of the votes cast.
(e) Abstentions shall not be considered as votes.
(/) A delegate may represent, and vote in the name of, one country only,
(g) Countries of the Union not members of the Assembly shall be admitted to
its meetings as observers.
(4) (a) The Assembly shall meet once in every third calendar year in ordinary
session upon convocation by the Director General and, in the absence of exceptional
circumstances, during the same period and at the same place as the General Assembly
of the Organization.
(b) The Assembly shall meet in extraordinary session upon convocation by the
Director General, at the request of the Executive Committee or at the request of onefourth of the countries members of the Assembly.
(5) The Assembly shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
Article 23. (1) The Assembly shall have an Executive Committee.
(2) (a) The Executive Committee shall consist of countries elected by the
Assembly from among countries members of the Assembly. Furthermore, the coun
try on whose territory the Organization has its headquarters shall, subject to the pro
visions of Article 25(7)(o), have an ex qfficio seat on the Committee.
(6) The Government of each country member of the Executive Committee
shall be represented by one delegate, who may be assisted by alternate delegates, ad
visors, and experts.
(c) The expenses of each delegation shall be borne by the Government which
has appointed it.
(3) The number of countries members of the Executive Committee shall cor
respond to one-fourth of the number of countries members of the Assembly. In
establishing the number of seats to be filled, remainders after division by four shall
be disregarded.
(4) In electing the members of the Executive Committee, the Assembly shall
have due regard to an equitable geographical distribution and to the need for coun
tries party to the Special Agreements which might be established in relation with the
Union to be among the countries constituting the Executive Committee.
(5) (a) Each member of the Executive Committee shall serve from the close of
the session of the Assembly which elected it to the close of the next ordinary session
of the Assembly.
(b) Members of the Executive Committee may be re-elected, but not more
than two-thirds of them.
(c) The Assembly shall establish the details of the rules governing the election
and possible re-election of the members of the Executive Committee.
(6) (a) The Executive Committee shall:
(i) Prepare the draft agenda of the Assembly;
(ii) Submit proposals to the Assembly respecting the draft program and triennial
budget of the Union prepared by the Director General;
(iii) Approve, within the limits of the program and the triennial budget, the specific
yearly budgets and programs prepared by the Director General;
(iv) Submit, with appropriate comments, to the Assembly the periodical reports of
the Director General and the yearly audit reports on the accounts;
(v) In accordance with the decisions of the Assembly and having regard to cir
cumstances arising between two ordinary sessions of the Assembly, take all
necessary measures to ensure the execution of the program of the Union by the
Director General;
(vi) Perform such other functions as are allocated to it under this Convention.
(b) With respect to matters which are of interest also to other Unions ad
ministered by the Organization, the Executive Committee shall make its decisions
after having heard the advice of the Coordination Committee of the Organization.
(7) (a) The Executive Committee shall meet once a year in ordinary session
upon convocation by the Director General, preferably during the same period and at
the same place as the Coordination Committee of the Organization.
(b) The Executive Committee shall meet in extraordinary session upon con
vocation by the Director General, either on his own initiative, or at the request of its
Chairman or one-fourth of its members.
(8) (a) Each country member of the Executive Committee shall have one vote.
(b) One-half of the members of the Executive Committee shall constitute a
quorum.
(c) Decisions shall be made by a simple majority of the votes cast.
(d) Abstentions shall not be considered as votes.
(e) A delegate may represent, and vote in the name of, one country only.
(9) Countries of the Union not members of the Executive Committee shall be
admitted to its meetings as observers.
(10) The Executive Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
Article 24. (1) (a) The administrative tasks with respect to the Union shall
be performed by the International Bureau, which is a continuation of the Bureau of
the Union united with the Bureau of the Union established by the International Con
vention for the Protection of Industrial Property. '
(b) In particular, the International Bureau shall provide the secretariat of the
various organs of the Union.
(c) The Director General of the Organization shall be the chief executive of the
Union and shall represent the Union.
(2) The International Bureau shall assemble and publish information concern
ing the protection of copyright. Each country of the Union shall promptly com
municate to the International Bureau all new laws and official texts concerning the
protection of copyright.
(3) The International Bureau shall publish a monthly periodical.
(4) The International Bureau shall, on request, furnish information to any
country of the Union on matters concerning the protection of copyright.
(5) The International Bureau shall conduct studies, and shall provide services,
designed to facilitate the protection of copyright.
(6) The Director General and any staff member designated by him shall par
ticipate, without the right to vote, in all meetings of the Assembly, the Executive
Committee and any other committee of experts or working group. The Director
General, or a staff member designated by him, shall be ex officio secretary of these
bodies.
(7) (a) The International Bureau shall, in accordance with the directions of
the Assembly and in cooperation with the Executive Committee, make the prepara
tions for the conferences of revision of the provisions of the Convention other than
Articles 22 to 26.
(b) The International Bureau may consult with intergovernmental and inter
national non-governmental organizations concerning preparations for conferences
of revision.
(c) The Director General and persons designated by him shall take part,
without the right to vote, in the discussions at these conferences.
(8) The International Bureau shall carry out any other tasks assigned to it.
Article 25. (1) (a) The Union shall have a budget.
(b) The budget of the Union shall include the income and expenses proper to
the Union, its contribution to the budget of expenses common to the Unions, and,
where applicable, the sum made available to the budget of the Conference of the
Organization.
(c) Expenses not attributable exclusively to the Union but also to one or more
other Unions administered by the Organization shall be considered as expenses com
mon to the Unions. The share of the Union in such common expenses shall be in pro
portion to the interest the Union has in them.
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 828, p. 107.
(2) The budget of the Union shall be established with due regard to the re
quirements of coordination with the budgets of the other Unions administered by the
Organization.
(3) The budget of the Union shall be financed from the following sources:
(i) Contributions of the countries of the Union;
(ii) Fees and charges due for services performed by the International Bureau in
relation to the Union;
(iii) Sale of, or royalties on, the publications of the International Bureau concerning
the Union;
(iv) Gifts, bequests, and subventions;
(v) Rents, interests, and other miscellaneous income.
(4) (a) For the purpose of establishing its contribution towards the budget,
each country of the Union shall belong to a class, and shall pay its annual contribu
tions on the basis of a number of units fixed as follows:
Class I ............................................ 25
Class II ............................................ 20
Class III ........................................... 15
Class IV ........................................... 10
Class V ............................................ 5
Class VI ........................................... 3
ClassVII .......................................... 1
(6) Unless it has already done so, each country shall indicate, concurrently
with depositing its instrument of ratification or accession, the class to which it wishes
to belong. Any country may change class. If it chooses a lower class, the country
must announce it to the Assembly at one of its ordinary sessions. Any such change
shall take effect at the beginning of the calendar year following the session.
(c) The annual contribution of each country shall be an amount in the same
proportion to the total sum to be contributed to the annual budget of the Union by
all countries as the number of its units is to the total of the units of all contributing
countries.
(d) Contributions shall become due on the first of January of each year.
(e) A country which is in arrears in the payment of its contributions shall have
no vote in any of the organs of the Union of which it is a member if the amount of its
arrears equals or exceeds the amount of the contributions due from it for the
preceding two full years. However, any organ of the Union may allow such a country
to continue to exercise its vote in that organ if, and as long as, it is satisfied that the
delay in payment is due to exceptional and unavoidable circumstances.
(/) If the budget is not adopted before the beginning of a new financial period,
it shall be at the same level as the budget of the previous year, in accordance with the
financial regulations.
(5) The amount of the fees and charges due for services rendered by the Inter
national Bureau in relation to the Union shall be established, and shall be reported to
the Assembly and the Executive Committee, by the Director General.
(6) (a) The Union shall have a working capital fund which shall be constituted
by a single payment made by each country of the Union. If the fund becomes insuffi
cient, an increase shall be decided by the Assembly.
(b) The amount of the initial payment of each country to the said fund or of its
participation in the increase thereof shall be a proportion of the contribution of that
country for the year in which the fund is established or the increase decided.
(c) The proportion and the terms of payment shall be fixed by the Assembly on
the proposal of the Director General and after it has heard the advice of the Coor
dination Committee of the Organization.
(7) (a) In the headquarters agreement concluded with the country on the ter
ritory of which the Organization has its headquarters, it shall be provided that,
whenever the working capital fund is insufficient, such country shall grant advances.
The amount of these advances and the conditions on which they are granted shall be
the subject of separate agreements, in each case, between such country and the
Organization. As long as it remains under the obligation to grant advances, such
country shall have an ex officio seat on the Executive Committee.
(b) The country referred to in subparagraph (a) and the Organization shall
each have the right to denounce the obligation to grant advances, by written notifica
tion. Denunciation shall take effect three years after the end of the year in which it
has been notified.
(8) The auditing of the accounts shall be effected by one or more of the coun
tries of the Union or by external auditors, as provided in the financial regulations.
They shall be designated, with their agreement, by the Assembly.
Article 26. (1) Proposals for the amendment of Articles 22, 23, 24, 25, and
the present Article, may be initiated by any country member of the Assembly, by the
Executive Committee, or by the Director General. Such proposals shall be com
municated by the Director General to the member countries of the Assembly at least
six months in advance of their consideration by the Assembly.
(2) Amendments to the Articles referred to in paragraph (1) shall be adopted
by the Assembly. Adoption shall require three-fourths of the votes cast, provided
that any amendment of Article 22, and of the present paragraph, shall require fourfifths of the votes cast.
(3) Any amendment to the Articles referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) shall enter into
force one month after written notifications of acceptance, effected in accordance
with their respective constitutional processes, have been received by the Director
General from three-fourths of the countries members of the Assembly at the time it
adopted the amendment. Any amendment to the said Articles thus accepted shall
bind all the countries which are members of the Assembly at the time the amendment
enters into force, or which become members thereof at a subsequent date, provided
that any amendment increasing the financial obligations of countries of the Union
shall bind only those countries which have notified their acceptance of such amend
ment.
Article 27. (1) This Convention shall be submitted to revision with a view to
the introduction of amendments designed to improve the system of the Union.
(2) For this purpose, conferences shall be held successively in one of the coun
tries of the Union among the delegates of the said countries.
(3) Subject to the provisions of Article 26 which apply to the amendment of
Articles 22 to 26, any revision of this Act, including the Appendix, shall require the
unanimity of the votes cast.
Article 28. (1) (a) Any country of the Union which has signed this Act may
ratify it, and, if it has not signed it, may accede to it. Instruments of ratification or
accession shall be deposited with the Director General.
(b) Any country of the Union may declare in its instrument of ratification or
accession that its ratification or accession shall not apply to Articles 1 to 21 and the
Appendix, provided that, if such country has previously made a declaration under
Article VI(1) of the Appendix, then it may declare in the said instrument only that its
ratification or accession shall not apply to Articles 1 to 20.
(c) Any country of the Union which, in accordance with subparagraph (b) , has
excluded provisions therein referred to from the effects of its ratification or accession
may at any later time declare that it extends the effects of its ratification or accession
to those provisions. Such declaration shall be deposited with the Director General.
(2) (a) Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix shall enter into force three months
after both of the following two conditions are fulfilled:
(i) At least five countries of the Union have ratified or acceded to this Act without
making a declaration under paragraph (1)(6);
(ii) France, Spain, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and
the United States of America, have become bound by the Universal Copyright
Convention as revised at Paris on July 24, 1971.'
(b) The entry into force referred to in subparagraph (c) shall apply to those
countries of the Union which, at least three months before the said entry into force,
have deposited instruments of ratification or accession not containing a declaration
under paragraph (!)(&).
(c) With respect to any country of the Union not covered by subparagraph (b)
and which ratifies or accedes to this Act without making a declaration under para
graph (1)(6), Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix shall enter into force three months
after the date on which the Director General has notified the deposit of the relevant
instrument of ratification or accession, unless a subsequent date has been indicated in
the instrument deposited. In the latter case, Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix shall
enter into force with respect to that country on the date thus indicated.
(d) The provisions of subparagraphs (a) to (c) do not affect the application of
Article VI of the Appendix.
(3) With respect to any country of the Union which ratifies or accedes to this
Act with or without a declaration made under paragraph (1)(6), Articles 22 to 38
shall enter into force three months after the date on which the Director General has
notified the deposit of the relevant instrument of ratification or accession, unless a
subsequent date has been indicated in the instrument deposited. In the latter case,
Articles 22 to 38 shall enter into force with respect to that country on the date thus in
dicated.
Article 29. (1) Any country outside the Union may accede to this Act and
thereby become party to this Convention and a member of the Union. Instruments of
accession shall be deposited with the Director General.
(2) (a) Subject to subparagraph (b), this Convention shall enter into force
with respect to any country outside the Union three months after the date on which
the Director General has notified the deposit of its instrument of accession, unless a
subsequent date has been indicated in the instrument deposited. In the latter case,
1 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 943, p. 178.
this Convention shall enter into force with respect to that country on the date thus in
dicated.
( ) If the entry into force according to subparagraph (a) precedes the entry
into force of Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix according to Article 28(2)(a), the said
country shall, in the meantime, be bound, instead of by Articles 1 to 21 and the Ap
pendix, by Articles 1 to 20 of the Brussels Act of this Convention.
Article 29 bis. Ratification of or accession to this Act by any country not
bound by Articles 22 to 38 of the Stockholm Act of this Convention shall, for the sole
purposes of Article 14(2) of the Convention establishing the Organization, amount
to ratification of or accession to the said Stockholm Act with the limitation set forth
in Article 28(l)(6)(i) thereof.
Article 30. (1) Subject to the exceptions permitted by paragraph (2) of this
Article, by Article 28(l)(o), by Article 33(2), and by the Appendix, ratification or ac
cession shall automatically entail acceptance of all the provisions and admission to
all the advantages of this Convention.
(2) (a) Any country of the Union ratifying or acceding to this Act may, sub
ject to Article V(2) of the Appendix, retain the benefit of the reservations it has
previously formulated on condition that it makes a declaration to that effect at the
time of the deposit of its instrument of ratification or accession.
(b) Any country outside the Union may declare, in acceding to this Conven
tion and subject to Article V(2) of the Appendix, that it intends to substitute, tem
porarily at least, for Article 8 of this Act concerning the right of translation, the pro
visions of Article 5 of the Union Convention of 1886, as completed at Paris in 1896,
on the clear understanding that the said provisions are applicable only to translations
into a language in general use in the said country. Subject to Article I(6)(6) of the Ap
pendix, any country has the right to apply, in relation to the right of translation of
works whose country of origin is a country availing itself of such a reservation, a pro
tection which is equivalent to the protection granted by the latter country.
(c) Any country may withdraw such reservations at any time by notification
addressed to the Director General.
Article 31. (1) Any country may declare in its instrument of ratification or
accession, or may inform the Director General by written notification at any time
thereafter, that this Convention shall be applicable to all or part of those territories,
designated in the declaration or notification, for the external relations of which it is
responsible.
(2) Any country which has made such a declaration or given such a notification
may, at any time, notify the Director General that this Convention shall cease to be
applicable to all or part of such territories.
(3) (a) Any declaration made under paragraph (1 ) shall take effect on the same
date as the ratification or accession in which it was included, and any notification
given under that paragraph shall take effect three months after its notification by the
Director General.
(b) Any notification given under paragraph (2) shall take effect twelve months
after its receipt by the Director General.
(4) This Article shall in no way be understood as implying the recognition or
tacit acceptance by a country of the Union of the factual situation concerning a terVol. 1161,1-18338
ritory to which this Convention is made applicable by another country of the Union
by virtue of a declaration under paragraph (1).
Article 32. (1) This Act shall, as regards relations between the countries of
the Union, and to the extent that it applies, replace the Berne Convention of
September 9,1886, and the subsequent Acts of revision. The Acts previously in force
shall continue to be applicable, in their entirety or to the extent that this Act does not
replace them by virtue of the preceding sentence, in relations with countries of the
Union which do not ratify or accede to this Act.
(2) Countries outside the Union which become party to this Act shall, subject
to paragraph (3), apply it with respect to any country of the Union not bound by this
Act or which, although bound by this Act, has made a declaration pursuant to Arti
cle 28(l)(o). Such countries recognize that the said country of the Union, in its rela
tions with them:
(i) May apply the provisions of the most recent Act by which it is bound, and
(ii) Subject to Article 1(6) of the Appendix, has the right to adapt the protection to
the level provided for by this Act.
(3) Any country which has availed itself of any of the faculties provided for in
the Appendix may apply the provisions of the Appendix relating to the faculty or
faculties of which it has availed itself in its relations with any other country of the
Union which is not bound by this Act, provided that the latter country has accepted
the application of the said provisions.
Article 33. (1) Any dispute between two or more countries of the Union con
cerning the interpretation or application of this Convention, not settled by negotia
tion, may, by any one of the countries concerned, be brought before the Interna
tional Court of Justice by application in conformity with the Statute of the Court,
unless the countries concerned agree on some other method of settlement. The coun
try bringing the dispute before the Court shall inform the International Bureau; the
International Bureau shall bring the matter to the attention of the other countries of
the Union.
(2) Each country may, at the time it signs this Act or deposits its instrument of
ratification or accession, declare that it does not consider itself bound by the provi
sions of paragraph (1). With regard to any dispute between such country and any
other country of the Union, the provisions of paragraph (1) shall not apply.
(3) Any country having made a declaration in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (2) may, at any time, withdraw its declaration by notification addressed
to the Director General.
Article 34. (1) Subject to Article 29bis, no country may ratify or accede to
earlier Acts of this Convention once Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix have entered
into force.
(2) Once Articles 1 to 21 and the Appendix have entered into force, no country
may make a declaration under Article 5 of the Protocol Regarding Developing Coun
tries attached to the Stockholm Act.
Article 35. (1) This Convention shall remain in force without limitation as to
time.
(2) Any country may denounce this Act by notification addressed to the Direc
tor General. Such denunciation shall constitute also denunciation of all earlier Acts
and shall affect only the country making it, the Convention remaining in full force
and effect as regards the other countries of the Union.
(3) Denunciation shall take effect one year after the day on which the Director
General has received the notification.
(4) The right of denunciation provided by this Article shall not be exercised by
any country before the expiration of five years from the date upon which it becomes a
member of the Union.
Article 36. (1) Any country party to this Convention undertakes to adopt, in
accordance with its constitution, the measures necessary to ensure the application of
this Convention.
(2) It is understood that, at the time a country becomes bound by this Conven
tion, it will be in a position under its domestic law to give effect to the provisions of
this Convention.
Article 37. (!)(») This Act shall be signed in a single copy in the French and
English languages and, subject to paragraph (2), shall be deposited with the Director
General.
(b) Official texts shall be established by the Director General, after consulta
tion with the interested Governments, in the Arabic, German, Italian, Portuguese
and Spanish languages, and such other languages as the Assembly may designate.
(c) In case of differences of opinion on the interpretation of the various texts,
the French text shall prevail.
(2) This Act shall remain open for signature until January 31,1972. Until that
date, the copy referred to in paragraph (l)(c) shall be deposited with the Government
of the French Republic.
(3) The Director General shall certify and transmit two copies of the signed
text of this Act to the Governments of all countries of the Union and, on request, to
the Government of any other country.
(4) The Director General shall register this Act with the Secretariat of the
United Nations.
(5) The Director General shall notify the Governments of all countries of the
Union of signatures, deposits of instruments of ratification or accession and any
declarations included in such instruments or made pursuant to Articles 28(1 )(c),
30(2)(ff) and (b), ana 33(2), entry into force of any provisions of this Act, notifica
tions of denunciation, and notifications pursuant to Articles 30(2)(c), 31(1) and (2),
33(3), and 38(1), as well as the Appendix.
Article 38. (1) Countries of the Union which have not ratified or acceded to
this Act and which are not bound by Articles 22 to 26 of the Stockholm Act of this
Convention may, until April 26, 1975, exercise, if they so desire, the rights provided
under the said Articles as if they were bound by them. Any country desiring to exer
cise such rights shall give written notification to this effect to the Director General;
this notification shall be effective on the date of its receipt. Such countries shall be
deemed to be members of the Assembly until the said date.
(2) As long as all the countries of the Union have not become Members of the
Organization, the International Bureau of the Organization shall also function as the
Bureau of the Union, and the Director General as the Director of the said Bureau.
(3) Once all the countries of the Union have become Members of the Organiza
tion, the rights, obligations, and property of the Bureau of the Union shall devolve
on the International Bureau of the Organization.
APPENDIX
Article I. (1) Any country regarded as a developing country in conformity with the
established practice of the General Assembly of the United Nations which ratifies or accedes to
this Act, of which this Appendix forms an integral part, and which, having regard to its
economic situation and its social or cultural needs, does not consider itself immediately in a
position to make provision for the protection of all the rights as provided for in this Act, may,
by a notification deposited with the Director General at the time of depositing its instrument of
ratification or accession or, subject to Article V(l)(c), at any time thereafter, declare that it will
avail itself of the faculty provided for in Article II, or of the faculty provided for in Article III,
or of both of those faculties. It may, instead of availing itself of the faculty provided for in Ar
ticle II, make a declaration according to Article V(l)(a).
(2) (a) Any declaration under paragraph (1) notified before the expiration of the period
of ten years from the entry into force of Articles 1 to 21 and this Appendix according to Arti
cle 28(2) shall be effective until the expiration of the said period. Any such declaration may be
renewed in whole or in part for periods of ten years each by a notification deposited with the
Director General not more than fifteen months and not less than three months before the expi
ration of the ten-year period then running.
(b) Any declaration under paragraph (1) notified after the expiration of the period of ten
years from the entry into force of Articles 1 to 21 and this Appendix according to Article 28(2)
shall be effective until the expiration of the ten-year period then running. Any such declaration
may be renewed as provided for in the second sentence of subparagraph (a).
(3) Any country of the Union which has ceased to be regarded as a developing country as
referred to in paragraph (1) shall no longer be entitled to renew its declaration as provided in
paragraph (2), and, whether or not it formally withdraws its declaration, such country shall be
precluded from availing itself of the faculties referred to in paragraph (1) from the expiration
of the ten-year period then running or from the expiration of a period of three years after it has
ceased to be regarded as a developing country, whichever period expires later.
(4) Where, at the time when the declaration made under paragraph (1) or (2) ceases to be
effective, there are copies in stock which were made under a license granted by virtue of this Ap
pendix, such copies may continue to be distributed until their stock is exhausted.
(5) Any country which is bound by the provisions of this Act and which has deposited a
declaration or a notification in accordance with Article 31(1) with respect to the application of
this Act to a particular territory, the situation of which can be regarded as analogous to that of
the countries referred to in paragraph (1), may, in respect of such territory, make the declara
tion referred to in paragraph (1) and the notification of renewal referred to in paragraph (2). As
long as such declaration or notification remains in effect, the provisions of this Appendix shall
be applicable to the territory in respect of which it was made.
(6) (a) The fact that a country avails itself of any of the faculties referred to in
paragraph (1) does not permit another country to give less protection to works of which the
country of origin is the former country than it is obliged to grant under Articles 1 to 20.
(b) The right to apply reciprocal treatment provided for in Article 30(2)(£>), second
sentence, shall not, until the date on which the period applicable under Article 1(3) expires, be
exercised in respect of works the country of origin of which is a country which has made a
declaration according to Article V(l)(a).
Article II. (1) Any country which has declared that it will avail itself of the faculty pro
vided for in this Article shall be entitled, so far as works published in printed or analogous
forms of reproduction are concerned, to substitute for the exclusive right of translation pro
vided for in Article 8 a system of non-exclusive and non-transferable licenses, granted by the
competent authority under the following conditions and subject to Article IV.
(2) (a) Subject to paragraph (3), if, after the expiration of a period of three years, or of
any longer period determined by the national legislation of the said country, commencing on
the date of the first publication of the work, a translation of such work has not been published
in a language in general use in that country by the owner of the right of translation, or with his
authorization, any national of such country may obtain a license to make a translation of the
work in the said language and publish the translation in printed or analogous forms of
reproduction.
(b) A license under the conditions provided for in this Article may also be granted if all
the editions of the translation published in the language concerned are out of print.
(3) (a) In the case of translations into a language which is not in general use in one or
more developed countries which are members of the Union, a period of one year shall be
substituted for the period of three years referred to in paragraph (2)(«).
(b) Any country referred to in paragraph (1) may, with the unanimous agreement of the
developed countries which are members of the Union and in which the same language is in
general use, substitute, in the case of translations into that language, for the period of three
years referred to in paragraph (2)(a) a shorter period as determined by such agreement but not
less than one year. However, the provisions of the foregoing sentence shall not apply where the
language in question is English, French or Spanish. The Director General shall be notified of
any such agreement by the Governments which have concluded it.
(4) (a) No license obtainable after three years shall be granted under this Article until a
further period of six months has elapsed, and no license obtainable after one year shall be
granted under this Article until a further period of nine months has elapsed
(i) From the date on which the applicant complies with the requirements mentioned in Arti
cle IV(1); or
(ii) Where the identity or the address of the owner of the right of translation is unknown,
from the date on which the applicant sends, as provided for in Article IV(2), copies of his
application submitted to the authority competent to grant the license.
(b) If, during the said period of six or nine months, a translation in the language in
respect of which the application was made is published by the owner of the right of translation
or with his authorization, no license under this Article shall be granted.
(5) Any license under this Article shall be granted only for the purpose of teaching,
scholarship or research.
(6) If a translation of a work is published by the owner of the right of translation or with
his authorization at a price reasonably related to that normally charged in the country for com
parable works, any license granted under this Article shall terminate if such translation is in the
same language and with substantially the same content as the translation published under the
license. Any copies already made before the license terminates may continue to be distributed
until their stock is exhausted.
(7) For works which are composed mainly of illustrations, a license to make and publish
a translation of the text and to reproduce and publish the illustrations may be granted only if
the conditions of Article III are also fulfilled.
(8) No license shall be granted under this Article when the author has withdrawn from
circulation all copies of his work.
(9) (a) A license to make a translation of a work which has been published in printed or
analogous forms of reproduction may also be granted to any broadcasting organization having
its headquarters in a country referred to in paragraph (1), upon an application made to the
competent authority of that country by the said organization, provided that all of the following
conditions are met:
(i) The translation is made from a copy made and acquired in accordance with the laws of
the said country;
(ii) The translation is only for use in broadcasts intended exclusively for teaching or for the
dissemination of the results of specialized technical or scientific research to experts in a
particular profession;
(iii) The translation is used exclusively for the purposes referred to in condition (ii) through
broadcasts made lawfully and intended for recipients on the territory of the said country,
including broadcasts made through the medium of sound or visual recordings lawfully
and exclusively made for the purpose of such broadcasts;
(iv) All uses made of the translation are without any commercial purpose.
(b) Sound or visual recordings of a translation which was made by a broadcasting
organization under a license granted by virtue of this paragraph may, for the purposes and sub
ject to the conditions referred to in subparagraph (a) and with the agreement of that organiza
tion, also be used by any other broadcasting organization having its headquarters in the coun
try whose competent authority granted the license in question.
(c) Provided that all of the criteria and conditions set out in subparagraph (a) are met, a
license may also be granted to a broadcasting organization to translate any text incorporated in
an audio-visual fixation where such fixation was itself prepared and published for the sole pur
pose of being used in connection with systematic instructional activities.
(d) Subject to subparagraphs (a) to (c), the provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall
apply to the grant and exercise of any license granted under this paragraph.
Article III. (1) Any country which has declared that it will avail itself of the faculty pro
vided for in this Article shall be entitled to substitute for the exclusive right of reproduction
provided for in Article 9 a system of non-exclusive and non-transferable licenses, granted by
the competent authority under the following conditions and subject to Article IV.
(2) (a) If, in relation to a work to which this Article applies by virtue of paragraph (7),
after the expiration of
(i) The relevant period specified in paragraph (3), commencing on the date of first publication
of a particular edition of the work, or
(ii) Any longer period determined by national legislation of the country referred to in
paragraph (1), commencing on the same date,
copies of such edition have not been distributed in that country to the general public or in con
nection with systematic instructional activities, by the owner of the right of reproduction or
with his authorization, at a price reasonably related to that normally charged in the country for
comparable works, any national of such country may obtain a license to reproduce and publish
such edition at that or a lower price for use in connection with systematic instructional ac
tivities.
(b) A license to reproduce and publish an edition which has been distributed as described
in subparagraph (a) may also be granted under the conditions provided for in this Article if,
after the expiration of the applicable period, no authorized copies of that edition have been on
sale for a period of six months in the country concerned to the general public or in connection
with systematic instructional activities at a price reasonably related to that normally charged in
the country for comparable works.
(3) The period referred to in paragraph (2)(fl)(i) shall be five years, except that
(i) For works of the natural and physical sciences, including mathematics, and of technology,
the period shall be three years;
(iï) For works of fiction, poetry, drama and music, and for art books, the period shall be
seven years.
(4) (a) No license obtainable after three years shall be granted under this Article until a
period of six months has elapsed
(i) From the date on which the applicant complies with the requirements mentioned in Arti
cle IV(1); or
(ii) Where the identity or the address of the owner of the right of reproduction is unknown,
from the date on which the applicant sends, as provided for in Article IV(2), copies of his
application submitted to the authority competent to grant the license.
(b) Where licenses are obtainable after other periods and Article IV(2) is applicable, no
license shall be granted until a period of three months has elapsed from the date of the dispatch
of the copies of the application.
(c) If, during the period of six or three months referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b),
a distribution as described in paragraph (2)(d) has taken place, no license shall be granted
under this Article.
(d) No license shall be granted if the author has withdrawn from circulation all copies of
the edition for the reproduction and publication of which the license has been applied for.
(5) A license to reproduce and publish a translation of a work shall not be granted under
this Article in the following cases:
(i) Where the translation was not published by the owner of the right of translation or with
his authorization, or
(ii) Where the translation is not in a language in general use in the country in which the license
is applied for.
(6) If copies of an edition of a work are distributed in the country referred to in para
graph (1) to the general public or in connection with systematic instructional activities, by the
owner of the right of reproduction or with his authorization, at a price reasonably related to
that normally charged in the country for comparable works, any license granted under this Ar
ticle shall terminate if such edition is in the same language and with substantially the same con
tent as the edition which was published under the said license. Any copies already made before
the license terminates may continue to be distributed until their stock is exhausted.
(7) (a) Subject to subparagraph (b), the works to which this Article applies shall be
limited to works published in printed or analogous forms of reproduction.
(b) This Article shall also apply to the reproduction in audio-visual form of lawfully
made audio-visual fixations including any protected works incorporated therein and to the
translation of any incorporated text into a language in general use in the country in which the
license is applied for, always provided that the audio-visual fixations in question were prepared
and published for the sole purpose of being used in connection with systematic instructional ac
tivities.
Article IV. (1) A license under Article II or Article III may be granted only if the appli
cant, in accordance with the procedure of the country concerned, establishes either that he has
requested, and has been denied, authorization by the owner of the right to make and publish
the translation or to reproduce and publish the edition, as the case may be, or that, after due
diligence on his part, he was unable to find the owner of the right. At the same time as making
the request, the applicant shall inform any national or international information center re
ferred to in paragraph (2).
(2) If the owner of the right cannot be found, the applicant for a license shall send, by
registered airmail, copies of his application, submitted to the authority competent to grant the
license, to the publisher whose name appears on the work and to any national or international
information center which may have been designated, in a notification to that effect deposited
with the Director General, by the Government of the country in which the publisher is believed
to have his principal place of business.
(3) The name of the author shall be indicated on all copies of the translation or repro
duction published under a license granted under Article II or Article III. The title of the work
shall appear on all such copies. In the case of a translation, the original title of the work shall
appear in any case on all the said copies.
(4) (a) No license granted under Article II or Article III shall extend to the export of
copies, and any such license shall be valid only for publication of the translation or of the re
production, as the case may be, in the territory of the country in which it has been applied for.
(b) For the purposes of subparagraph (a), the notion of export shall include the sending
of copies from any territory to the country which, in respect of that territory, has made a
declaration under Article 1(5).
(c) Where a governmental or other public entity of a country which has granted a license
to make a translation under Article II into a language other than English, French or Spanish
sends copies of a translation published under such license to another country, such sending of
copies shall not, for the purposes of subparagraph (a), be considered to constitute export if all
of the following conditions are met:
(i) The recipients are individuals who are nationals of the country whose competent authori
ty has granted the license, or organizations grouping such individuals;
(ii) The copies are to be used only for the purpose of teaching, scholarship or research;
(iii) The sending of the copies and their subsequent distribution to recipients is without any
commercial purpose; and
(iv) The country to which the copies have heen sent has agreed with the country whose compe
tent authority has granted the license to allow the receipt, or distribution, or both, and
the Director General has been notified of the agreement by the Government of the coun
try in which the license has been granted.
(5) All copies published under a license granted by virtue of Article II or Article III shall
bear a notice in the appropriate language stating that the copies are available for distribution
only in the country or territory to which the said license applies.
(6) («) Due provision shall be made at the national level to ensure
(i) That the license provides, in favour of the owner of the right of translation or of reproduc
tion, as the case may be, for just compensation that is consistent with standards of
royalties normally operating on licenses freely negotiated between persons in the two
countries concerned; and
(ii) Payment and transmittal of the compensation: should national currency regulations inter
vene, the competent authority shall make all efforts, by the use of international
machinery, to ensure transmittal in internationally convertible currency or its equivalent.
(b) Due provision shall be made by national legislation to ensure a correct translation of
the work, or an accurate reproduction of the particular edition, as the case may be.
Article V. (1) (a) Any country entitled to make a declaration that it will avail itself of
the faculty provided for in Article II may, instead, at the time of ratifying or acceding to this
Act:
(i) If it is a country to which Article 30(2)(a) applies, make a declaration under that provision
as far as the right of translation is concerned;
(ii) If it is a country to which Article 30(2)(a) does not apply, and even if it is not a country
outside the Union, make a declaration as provided for in Article 30(2)(e), first sentence.
(b) In the case of a country which ceases to be regarded as a developing country as re
ferred to in Article 1(1), a declaration made according to this paragraph shall be effective until
the date on which the period applicable under Article 1(3) expires.
(c) Any country which has made a declaration according to this paragraph may not sub
sequently avail itself of the faculty provided for in Article II even if it withdraws the said
declaration.
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), any country which has availed itself of the faculty provided
for in Article II may not subsequently make a declaration according to paragraph (1).
(3) Any country which has ceased to be regarded as a developing country as referred to in
Article 1(1) may, not later than two years prior to the expiration of the period applicable under
Article 1(3), make a declaration to the effect provided for in Article 30(2)(b), first sentence, not
withstanding the fact that it is not a country outside the Union. Such declaration shall take
effect at the date on which the period applicable under Article 1(3) expires.
Article VI. (1) Any country of the Union may declare, as from the date of this Act, and
at any time before becoming bound by Articles 1 to 21 and this Appendix:
(i) If it is a country which, were it bound by Articles 1 to 21 and this Appendix, would be en
titled to avail itself of the faculties referred to in Article 1(1), that it will apply the provi
sions of Article II or of Article III or of both to works whose country of origin is a country
which, pursuant to (ii) below, admits the application of those Articles to such works, or
which is bound by Articles 1 to 21 and this Appendix; such declaration may, instead of
referring to Article II, refer to Article V;
(ii) That it admits the application of this Appendix to works of which it is the country of
origin by countries which have made a declaration under (i) above or a notification under
Article I.'
(2) Any declaration made under paragraph (1) shall be in writing and shall be deposited
with the Director General. The declaration shall become effective from the date of its deposit.

1 The following States have made the declaration provided for in the article VI (1) (ii), taking effect on the date of its
deposit as indicated hereinafter: United Kingdom (27 September 1971), Federal Republic of Germany (18 October 1973),
Norway (8 March 1974).